
                         BRAVEHEART



Robert the Bruce (narrator): I shall tell you of William Wallace.
Historians from England will say I am a liar, but history is written by
those who have hanged heroes. The king of Scotland had died without a son,
and the King of England, a cruel pagan known as Edward the Longshanks,
claimed the thrown of Scotland for himself. Scotland's nobles fought him,
and fought each other over the crown. So Longshanks invited them to talks
of truce, no weapons, one page only. Among the farmers of that shire was
Malcolm Wallace, a commoner with his own lands. He had two sons: John and
William.

Malcolm: I told you to stay.

William: Well, I finished my work. Where are we going?

Malcolm: MacAndrews. He was supposed to fess up when the gathering was
over.

William: Can I come?

Malcolm: No. Go home, boy.

William: But I want to go.

Malcolm: Go home William or you'll the back of my hand.

John: Follow him, William.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Malcolm: MacAndrews; MacAndrews. Great Jesus!

William: Ah! (screams)

Malcolm: It's all right! William!

John: William!

Malcolm: It's all right. Easy lad.

Dead Page Boy: William!

(in Wallace's house)

Campbell: We fight them!

MacClannough: Every nobleman who had the will to fight was at that meeting.
We can not beat an army.

Malcolm: We do not have to defeat them. Just fight them. Now who's with me.

Campbell (among others): I am, Wallace.

MacClannough: Alright, alright.

Malcolm: Ay.

Malcolm: Where do you think you're going?

William: I'm going with you.

Malcolm: Oh, you're going with, hey? And what are you going to do?

William: I'm gonna help.

Malcolm: Hey, and a good help you'd be, too. But I need you to stay here
and look after the place for me while I'm away.

William: I can fight!

Malcolm: I know. I know you can fight. But it's out wits that make us men.
See you tomorrow.

John: Ha!

Hamish: English!

William: Get down!

Hamish: With your father and brother gone, they'll kill us and burn the
farm.

William: It's up to us, Hamish.

Both boys: Ahhhh! (Throw rocks)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

William: Da? Da?

Campbell: William, come here lad.

(Funeral)

Priest: (speaks Latin)

Argyle: William, I am your uncle, Argyle. You have the look of your mother.

Argyle: We'll stay here tonight. Tomorrow you'll come home with me.

William: I don't want to leave.

Argyle: You didn't want your father to die either, did ya? But it happened.
Did the priest give a poetic benediction? "The Lord bless thee and keep
thee"?

William: It was in Latin.

Argyle: You don't speak Latin? Well that's something we shall have to
remedy, isn't it.

Argyle: The Lord bless thee and keep thee. The Lord cause his light to
shine on thee. The Lord lift up his continence upon thee. And give thee
peace. Amen.

Dead Malcolm: Your heart is free. Have the courage to follow her.

(Campbell plays bagpipes)

William: What are they doing?

Argyle: Saying goodbye in their own way. Playing outlawed tunes on outlawed
pipes. It was the same for me and your daddy, when our father was killed.

(William looks at sword)

Argyle: First, learn to use this (mind), then I'll teach you to use this
(sword).

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Robert the Bruce (narrator): Many years later, Edward the Longshanks, King
of England, supervised the wedding of his eldest son, who would succeed him
to the thrown. As bride for his son, Longshanks had chosen the daughter of
his rival, the King of France. It was widely whispered that for the
princess to conceive, Longshanks would have to do the honors himself. That
may have been what he had in mind all along.

Longshanks: Scotland, my land. The French will grovel to anyone with
strength, but how will they believe our strength when we can not rule the
whole of our own island?

Longshanks: Where is my son?

Isabella: Your pardon, my Lord. He asked me to come in his stead.

Longshanks: I sent for him and he sends you?

Isabella: Shall I leave, my Lord?

Longshanks: If he wants his Queen to rule when I am gone, then by all means
stay, and learn how. Please.

Longshanks: Nobles. Nobles are the key to the door of Scotland. Grant our
nobles lands in the north. Give their nobles estates here in England, and
make them too greedy to oppose us.

Advisor: But sire, our nobles will be reluctant to uproot. New lands mean
new taxes, and they are already taxed for the war in France.

Longshanks: Are they? Are they? The trouble with Scotland is that it's full
of Scots. Perhaps the time has come to reinstitute an old custom. Grant
them prima noctes. First night, when any common girl inhabiting their lands
is married, our nobles shall have sexual rights to her on the night of her
wedding. If we can't get them out, we breed them out. That should fetch
just the kind of lords we want to Scotland, taxes or no taxes.

Advisor: A most excellent idea, sire.

Longshanks: Is it?

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Robert the Bruce (narrator): Now in Edinburgh, gathered the council of
Scottish nobles. Among these was Robert, the 17th Earl of Bruce, the
leading contender for the crown of Scotland.

Robert the Bruce: I hear that Longshanks has granted prima noctes.

Craig: Clearly meant to draw more of his supporters here.

Robert the Bruce: My father believes that we must lull Longshanks into
confidence by neither supporting his decree nor opposing it.

Craig: A wise plan. And how is your father? We missed him at the council.

Robert the Bruce: Ah. His affairs in France keep him long overdue, but he
sends his greetings. And he says that I speak for all the Bruces, and for
Scotland.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

William: (rides home and smells air)

(wedding celebration; music playing)

William: You dropped your rock.

Hamish: Test of manhood.

William: You win.

Hamish: Call it a test of soldiery, then. The English won't let us train
with weapons, so we train with stones.

William: Well, a test of a soldier is not in his arm, it's here (mind).

Hamish: No, it's here (arm)

(Hamish hits William)

William: Hamish?

Hamish: Uh huh.

(drumming, rock throwing contest)

Campbell: Here you go, son. Show him how. Come on! Haha, my boy!

William: That's a good throw.

Hamish: Ay. Ay, it was.

William: I was wondering if you could do that when it matters. As it, as is
matters in battle. Can you crush a man with that throw?

Hamish: I could crush you, like a worm.

William: You could?

Hamish: Ay.

William: Well then do it. Would you like to see him crush me like a worm?

Crowd: Ay!

William: Then do it.

Hamish: You'll move.

William: I will not.

Campbell: He'll move.

(Hamish misses, William hits Hamish)

Campbell: Fine display, young Wallace.

William: You alright? You look a widdy bit shaky.

Hamish: I should have remembered the rocks.

William: Ay, you should have. Get up you big heap. It's good to see you
again.

Hamish: Ay, welcome home.

Girl: William, will you dance with me?

William: Of coarse I will.

(Horses ride in)

English lord: I have come to claim the right of prima noctes. As lord of
these lands, I will bless this marriage by taking the bride into my bed on
the first night of her union.

Scottish man: By God, you will not!

Lord: It is my noble right.

(They ride off with bride).

Smythe: Ha ha. Ha ha.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

(raining, outside of Murron's house)

William: Good evening, sir.

MacClannough: Ah, young Wallace. Grand soft evening, huh?

William: Ay, is that. I was wondering if I might have a word with your
daughter.

MacClannough: What do you want to have a word with her about?

William: Well, ah, Murron, would you like to come and ride with me on this
fine evening?

Mrs. MacClannough: In this? You're out of your mind.

William: Oh, it's good Scottish weather, madam. The rain is fallin'
straight down, well slightly to the side like.

Mrs. MacClannough: She can not go with you.

William: No?

Mrs. MacClannough: No the no, anyway.

William: No the no.

MacClannough: No the no. We'll see you later.

Murron: 'O the weather's just fine. It's hardly raining.

Mrs. MacClannough: Did you no hear what I said? Now get--Murron. It's you
she takes after.

William: How did you know me after so long?

Murron: Why, I didn't.

William: No?

Murron: It's just that I saw you staring at me and I didn't know who you
were.

William: 'O sorry, I suppose I was. Are you in the habit of riding off in
the rain with strangers?

Murron: It was the best way to make you leave.

William: Well, if I can ever work up the courage to ask you again, I'll
send you a written warning first.

Murron: 'O it wouldn't do you much good. I can't read.

William: Can you not?

Murron: no.

William: Well that's something we shall have to remedy, isn't it.

Murron: You're going to teach me to read, then?

William: Ah, if you like.

Murron: Ay.

William: In what language?

Murron: Are you showing off now?

William: That's right. Are you impressed yet?

Murron: No. Why should I be?

William: (in French) Yes. Because every single day I thought about you.

Murron: Do that standing on your head and I'll be impressed.

William: My kilt may fly up but I'll try.

Murron: You certainly didn't learn any manners on your travels.

William: I'm afraid the Romans have far worse manners than I.

Murron: You've been to Rome?

William: Ay, my uncle took me on a pilgrimage.

Murron: What was it like?

William: (in French) Not nearly as beautiful as you.

Murron: What does that mean?

William: Beautiful. But I belong here.

Mrs. MacClannough: Murron, come in now.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

William: Sir, I know it was strange of me to invite Murron to ride last
night, but I assure you I--

Campbell: MacClannough's daughter is another matter. I've come to fetch you
to a meeting.

William: What kind of meeting?

Campbell: The secret kind.

MacClannough: Your meetings are a waste of time, Campbell.

Campbell: Your father was a fighter, and a patriot.

William: I know who my father was. I came back home to raise crops, and God
willing a family. If I can live in peace, I will.

MacClannough: You say you want to stay out of the troubles?

William: Ay.

MacClannough: If you can prove it, you may court my daughter. Until you
prove it, my answer is no.

William: No?

MacClannough: No Wallace, no.

William: Didn't I just prove it?

MacClannough: No.

William: No?

MacClannough: No.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

William: Of coarse, running a farm is a lot of work, but that will all
change when my sons arrive.

Murron: So, you've got children?

William: Well not yet, but I was hoping that you could help me with that.

Murron: So you want me to marry you, then?

William: Well, that's a bit sudden but alright.

Murron: Is that what you call a proposal?

William: I love you. Always have. I want to marry you. Is that a yes?

Murron: Ay, that's a yes.

William: We best hurry. He'll be waiting.

Murron: Wait.

William: Where are you going?

William: What's that?

Murron: You'll see.

William: Father.

William: I will love you my whole life; you and no other.

Murron: And I you; you and no other forever.

Priest: (speaks Latin)

William: When am I gonna see you again? Tonight?

Murron: I can't.

William: Why not?

Murron: My dad's gotten suspicious.

William: Not as suspicious as you (?). When?

Murron: Tonight.

William: Tonight?

Murron: Ay.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Smythe: Look lively, sergeant.

Smythe: Where are you going lassie? Oo, that looks heavy. Let me help you.

Murron: That's fine.

Smythe: 'O, you remind me of my daughter back home.

Smythe: Hello lassie.

Soldier: Keep going, Smythe.

(lots of screaming)

Smythe: Ah, you bitch.

William: Are you alright?

Murron: Ay.

William: Can you ride?

Murron: Ay.

Smythe: Come back here, you bastard.

William: Meet me at the grove. Ride.

Smythe: They're getting away.

William: Murron? Murron?

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Magistrate: All of you know full well the great pains I've always taken
never to be to strict, to rigid, with the application of our laws. And as a
consequence, have we not learned to live together in relative peace and
harmony? Ha? And this day's lawlessness is how you repay my leniency. Well
you leave me with little choice. An assault on the king's soldiers is the
same as an assault on the king himself.

(He kills Murron)

Magistrate: Now, let this scrapper come to me.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Soldier: There. (points at William)

(fighting starts)

Magistrate: Corporal, summon archers on the tower, now.

Hamish: Hold still, father.

Campbell: Ahh, boy!

(William kills Magistrate)

Campbell: MacClannough, MacClannough!

Crowd of Scotsmen: MacClannough, MacClannough, WALLACE, WALLACE!

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Murron's Funeral)

Priest: (speaks Latin)

Mrs. MacClannough: (crying)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Campbell: What cha waiting for, boy?

Hamish: Here. You can do it. I'll hold him down.

Morrison: Here. You can do it. I'll hold him down.

Campbell: Ay, straight in, boy. I know it seems like a waste of good
whiskey, but indulge me. AHHH.

Hamish: Hold him! Hold him!

Scottish man: Let him go. Sorry.

Campbell: That will wake you up in the morning, boy.

Watch guard: There's somebody coming. Arm yourselves.

Hamish: There's somebody coming.

Campbell: MacGregors, from the next clan.

MacGregor: We heard about what was happening, and we don't want you
armidants thinking you can have your fun without us.

William: Go home. Some of us are in this. We can't help that now. But you
can help yourselves. Go home.

MacGregor: We'll have no homes left when the English garrison from the
castle comes through and burns us out. And they will.

William and Campbell: Welcome!

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

(William's army enters, dressed as English patrol)

English soldier: Patrol returning, my Lord.

English Lord: So, what news?

(William hits Lord)

English Lord: I have dispatched 100 soldiers to Lanark. They will be
returning now.

William: Were they dressed like this? Actually, it was more like 50. Make
it quick.

Morrison: Do you remember me?

Lord: I never did her any harm. It was my right.

Morrison: Your right? Well I'm here to claim the right as a husband.

William: I am William Wallace, and the rest of you will be spared. Go back
to England, and tell them there that Scotland's daughters and her sons are
yours no more. Tell them Scotland is free. Burn it.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

(in English castle)

Longshanks: Scottish rebels have routed one of my garrisons and murdered
the noble lord.

Prince: I heard. This Wallace is a brigand, nothing more.

Longshanks: And how would you deal with this brigand?

Prince: Like any common thief. Have the local magistrate arrest him and
punish him accordingly.

Longshanks: Leave us. Wallace has already killed the magistrate and taken
control of the town. Stand up. Stand up. In the morning, I depart for
France to press our rights there, and I leave you here to quell this little
rebellion, understood? Is it? One day you will be a king. At least try to
act like one.

Prince: Get away from me. I will need my military council.

Nicolette: (in French) I hope your husband goes to Scotland and meets
Wallace and then you'll be a widow.

English soldier: After them.

English leader: No point resisting. You're outnumbered and trapped. Now
where are the rest of you? Where's Wallace?

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Robert: Father?

Leper: Ah, come in, come in.

Robert: A rebellion has begun.

Leper: Under whom?

Robert: A commoner named William Wallace.

Leper: We will embrace this rebellion. Support it from our lands in the
north. I will gain English favor by condemning it, and ordering it opposed
from our lands in the south. Sit down. Stay a while.

Robert: This Wallace, he doesn't even have a knighthood, but he fights with
passion and he inspires.

Leper: And you wish to charge off and fight as he did. So would I.

Robert: Well, maybe it's time.

Leper: It is time to survive. You're the 17th Robert Bruce. The 16 before
you passed you land and title because they didn't charge in. Call a meeting
of the nobles.

Robert: But they do nothing but talk.

Leper: Rightly so. They're as rich in English titles and lands as they are
in Scottish, just as we are. Admire this man, this William Wallace.
Uncompromising men are easy to admire. He has courage, so does a dog. But
it is exactly the ability to compromise that makes a man noble. And
understand this: Edward Longshanks is the most ruthless king ever to sit in
the thrown of England. And none of us, and nothing of Scotland will remain,
unless we are as ruthless. Give in to our nobles. Knowing their minds is
the key to the thrown.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prince: Wait. Wait. Look. This is right and this is left. Carry on. Carry
on.

Nicolette: (in French) When the king returns, he will bury them in those
new clothes. Scotland is in chaos. Your husband is secretly sending an army
north.

Isabella: (in French) How do you know this?

Nicolette: (in French) Last night I slept with a member of the War Council.

Isabella: (in French) He shouldn't be telling secrets in bed.

Nicolette: (in French) Englishmen don't know what a tongue is for.

Isabella: (in French) Ah. This Scottish rebel, Wallace. He fights to avenge
a woman?

Nicolette: (in French) I nearly forgot. A magistrate wished to capture him,
and found he had a secret lover. So he cut the girl's throat to tempt
Wallace to fight, and fight he did. Knowing his passion for his lost love,
they next plotted to take him by desecrating the graves of his father and
brother, and setting an ambush at the grave of his love. He fought his way
through the trap and carried her body to a secret place. Now that's love,
no?

Isabella: Love? I wouldn't know.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

William: You know, eventually Longshanks will send his whole Northern Army
against us.

Campbell: Heavy cavalry, armored horse; shake the very ground.

Hamish: They'll ride right over us.

William: Uncle Argyle used to talk about it; how no army had ever stood up
to a charge of heavy horse.

Hamish: So what'll we do?

Campbell: Run, hide, the highland way.

William: We'll make spears. Hundreds of them. Long spears, twice as long as
a man.

Hamish: That long?

William: Ay.

Hamish: Some men are longer than others.

Campbell: Your mother's been telling stories about me again, ah?

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Guard: Volunteers coming in.

Faudron: William Wallace, we've come to fight and to die for ya.

William: Stand up, man. I'm not the pope.

Faudron: My name is Faudron, and my sword is yours. I brought you this.

Guard: We checked them for arms.

Faudron: I brought you this. My wife made it for ya.

William: Thank you.

Stephen: (laughs) Him? That can't be William Wallace. I'm prettier than
this man. Alright Father, I'll ask him. If I risk my neck for you, will I
get a chance to kill Englishmen?

Hamish: Is your father a ghost or do you converse with the Almighty?

Stephen: In order to find his equal, an Irishman is forced to talk to God.
Yes, Father. The Almighty says don't change the subject; just answer the
fooking question.

Hamish: Mind your tongue.

Campbell: Insane Irish.

Stephen: (pulls dagger on Campbell) Smart enough to get a dagger past your
guards, old man.

William: That's my friend, Irishman. And the answer to your question is
yes; if you fight for me you get to kill the English.

Stephen: Excellent. Stephen is my name. I'm the most wanted man on my
island, except I'm not on my island, of coarse. Mores the pity.

Hamish: Your island? You mean Ireland.

Stephen: Yeah. It's mine.

Hamish: You're a madman.

Stephen: I've come to the right place, then.

(everyone laughs)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Faurdon trys to kill Wallace, but Stephen saves him)

Stephen: Sure didn't the Almighty send me to watch your back? I didn't like
him anyway. He wasn't right in the head.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hamish: William, it's our runners.

Morrison: The English are devising an army towards Scotland.

William: Will the nobles rally?

Runner: Robert the Bruce and most of the others will not commit to battle.
But word is spread, and highlanders are coming down on their own.

Morrison: Ay, in flocks of hundreds and thousands.

William: Are you ready for a war?

Mornay: Well, what news?

Horseman: We're outnumbered, at least 3 to 1.

Mornay: How many horse, then?

Horseman: 300, maybe more.

Mornay: 300 heavy horse?

Lochlan: We must try to negotiate.

Short soldier: What are they talking about?

Tall soldier: I can't hear, but it doesn't look good. The nobles will
negotiate. If they do a deal, then we go home. And if not, we charge.

Mornay: 300 heavy horse; we have no chance.

Short soldier: I didn't come here to fight so they can own more lands; then
I have to work for them.

Tall soldier: Nor me. Alright lads. I have no time for these bastards; lets
go home.

Lochlan: Stop men. Do not leave. Wait until we've negotiated.

Short soldier: William Wallace?

Tall soldier: Can't be. Not tall enough.

Stephen: The Almighty says this must be a fashionable fight. It's drawn the
finest people.

Lochlan: Where is thy salute?

William: For presenting yourselves on this battlefield, I give you thanks.

Lochlan: This is our army. To join it you give homage.

William: I give homage to Scotland. And if this is your army, why does it
go?

Tall soldier: We didn't come here to fight for them.

Short soldier: Home. The English are too many.

William: Sons of Scotland, I am William Wallace.

Short soldier: William Wallace is 7 feet tall.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

William: Yes, I've heard. Kills men by the hundreds, and if he were here
he'd consume the English with fireballs from his eyes and bolts of
lightning from his ass. I am William Wallace, and I see before me an army
of my countrymen here in defiance of tyranny. You have come to fight as
free men, and free men you are. What would you do without freedom? Will you
fight?

Tall soldier: Fight against that? No, we will run, and we will live.

William: Ay, fight and you may die, run and you'll live. At least a while.
And dying in your beds many years from now, would you be willing to trade
all the days from this day to that for one chance, just one chance to come
back here and tell our enemies that they may take our lives, but they'll
never take our freedom.

(cheering)

English lord: They seem quite optimistic to me. Maybe they do want to
fight.

Cheltham: Confrontation might be a foregone conclusion, my lord. But none
the less, I think we should deliver the king's terms.

Lord: The king's terms will never live up to them.

Cheltham: My lord, I think--.

Lord: Alright, offer them the terms.

Craig: They're coming out. Shall we go and meet them?

Stephen: Fine speech. Now what do we do?

William: Just be yourselves.

Hamish: Where are you going?

William: I'm going to pick a fight.

Hamish: Well, we didn't get dressed up for nothing.

Cheltham: Mornay, Lochlan, Craig. Here are the king's terms. Lead this army
off field and he will give you each estates in Yorkshire, including
hereditary title, from which you will pay--, from which you will pay him an
annual duty--.

William: I have an offer for you.

Mornay: Cheltham, this is William Wallace.

Cheltham: From which you will pay the king an annual duty--.

William: I said I have an offer for you.

Lochlan: You disrespect a banner of truce?

William: From his king? Absolutely. Here are Scotland's terms. Lower your
flags, and march straight back to England, stopping at every home to beg
forgiveness for 100 years of theft, rape, and murder. Do that and your men
shall live. Do it not, and every one of you will die today.

Cheltham: You are outmatched. You have no heavy cavalry. In two centuries
no army has won without--.

William: I'm not finished. Before we let you leave, your commander must
cross that field, present himself before this army, put his head between
his legs, and kiss his own ass.

Mornay: I'd say that was rather less cordial that he was used to.

William: You be ready and do exactly as I say. On my signal, ride round
behind our position and flank them.

Mornay: We must not divide our forces.

William: Do it, and let the English see you do it.

Mornay: They'll think we've run away.

William: Take out their archers, and I'll meet you in the middle.

Mornay: Alright.

Priest: (speaks Latin)

English Lord: Insolent bastard. I want this Wallace's head on a plate.
Archers.

(Scots scream)

Stephen: The Lord says He can get me out of this mess, but He's pretty sure
you're fooked. Ah!

(Scots scream)

William: Ride!

Lord: See, every Scot with a horse is fleeing. Our cavalry will ride them
down like grass. Send the horse; full attack.

William: Hold! Hold! Hold! Now!

(lots of screaming)

Lord: Send the infantry.

Cheltham: My Lord?

Lord: You lead them.

(lots of fighting)

Lord: Retreat!

William: Alright.

William: (screaming)

Scottish army: (screaming) WALLACE!

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Craig: I knight thee Sir William Wallace. Sir William, in the name of God
we declare and appoint thee guardian and high protector of Scotland and thy
Captains as aides-de-camp. Stand and be recognized.

Robert: Does anyone know his politics?

Craig: No, but his weight with the commoners can unbalance everything. The
Balliols will kiss his ass so we must.

Balliol supporter: Sir William, Sir William. Inasmuch as you and your
captains hail from a region long known to support the Balliol clan, may we
invite you to continue your support and uphold our rightful claim.

(screaming)

William: Gentlemen!, Gentlemen!

Balliol supporter: Now is the time to declare a king.

Mornay: Wait! Then you are prepared to recognize our legitimate succession.

Balliol supporter: You're the ones who won't support the rightful claim.

Mornay: Those were lies when you first wrote them.

Balliol supporter: I demand recognition of these documents.

Craig: Gentlemen! Please, Gentlemen! Wait! Sir William, where are you
going?

William: We have beaten the English, but they'll come back because you
won't stand together.

Craig: Well what will you do?

William: I will invade England and defeat the English on their own ground.

Craig: Invade? That's impossible.

William: Why? Why is that impossible? You're so concerned with squabbling
for the scraps from Longshank's table that you've missed your God given
right to something better. There is a difference between us. You think the
people of this country exist to provide you with possession. I think your
possession exists to provide those people with freedom. And I go to make
sure that they have it.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Robert: Wait! I respect what you said, but remember that these men have
lands and castles. It's much to risk.

William: And the common man who bleeds on the battlefield, does he risk
less?

Robert: No, but from top to bottom this country has no sense of itself. Its
nobles share allegiance with England. Its clans war with each other. If you
make enemies on both sides of the border, you'll end up dead.

William: We all end up dead; it's just a question of how and why.

Robert: I'm not a coward. I want what you want, but we need the nobles.

William: We need them?

Robert: Ay.

William: Now tell me, what does that mean to be noble? Your title gives you
claim to the thrown of our country, but men don't follow titles, they
follow courage. Now our people know you. Noble, and common, they respect
you. And if you would just lead them to freedom, they'd follow you. And so
would I.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Royal Governor of York: Damn it! The sodomite my cousin the prince tells me
he has no troops to lend and every town in Northern England is begging for
help.

Soldier: Wallace rides! Governor: To which town?

Soldier: To here my Lord.

Governor: Bring the food and provisions inside, double the wall guards,
seal the gate, now!

Soldier: Quickly, bring in the provisions, seal off the gate, NOW!

Soldier: Sir, we can get you out if you leave now.

Governor: I am not about to tell my Uncle I've lost him the greatest city
in Northern England.

William: Come on!

Scottish soldiers: AAAHHH!

(lots of cheering, gate on fire)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

(back in London)

Soldier: Make way for the King.

Philip: It's not your fault. Stand up to him.

Prince: I will stand up to him and more.

Longshanks: What news of the North?

Prince: Nothing new, Your Majesty. We've sent riders to speed any word.

Longshanks: I heard the word in France, where I was fighting to expand your
future kingdom. The word, my son, is that our entire Northern Army has been
annihilated. And you have done nothing.

Prince: I have ordered conscriptions. They are assembled and ready to
depart.

Soldier: Excuse me, sire, but there is a very urgent message from York.

Longshanks: Come. Leave us.

Soldier: Yes, sire.

Prince: Wallace has sacked York.

Longshanks: What?

Prince: Wallace has sacked York. Ah!

Philip: Sire, thy own nephew. What beast could do such a thing?

Longshanks: If he can sack York, he can invade lower England.

Philip: We would stop him!

Longshanks: Who is this person who speaks to me as though I needed his
advise?

Prince: I have declared Philip my High Counselor.

Longshanks: Is he qualified?

Philip: I am skilled in the arts of war and military tactics, sire.

Longshanks: Are you? Then tell me, what advice would you offer on the
present situation?

(Longshanks kick's Philip out the window)

Philip: AAAHHH!

(Longshanks kicks Prince)

Longshanks: I shall offer a truce and pie him off. But who will go to him?
Not I, huh, if I fell under the sword of that murderer that might be my
head in a basket. And not my gentle son. The mere sight of him would only
encourage the enemy to take over the whole country. So who do I send? Whom
do I send?

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

William: I'm dreaming.

Murron: Yes you are, and you must wake.

William: I don't want to wake. I want to stay here with you.

Murron: And I with you. But you must wake now. Wake up, William. Wake up.
William, wake up.

Campbell: William, a royal entourage comes, flying banners of truce, with
the standard of Longshanks himself.

Isabella: I am the Princess of Wales. I come as the king's servant and with
his authority.

William: To do what?

Isabella: To discuss the king's proposals. Will you speak with a woman?

Isabella: I understand you have recently been given the rank of knight.

William: I have been given nothing. God makes men what they are.

Isabella: Did God make you the sacker of peaceful cities, the executioner
of the king's nephew, my husband's own cousin?

William: York was the staging point for every invasion of my country. And
that royal cousin hanged innocent Scots, even women and children, from the
city walls. Oh, Longshanks did far worse the last time he took a Scottish
city.

Hamilton: (in Latin) He is a bloody murdering savage. And he's telling
lies.

William: (in Latin) I never lie. But I am a savage. (in French) Or in
French if you prefer. (in English) You ask your king to his face, ask him,
and see if his eyes can convince you of the truth.

Isabella: Hamilton, leave us.

Hamilton: My lady?

Isabella: Leave us. Now. Let us talk plainly. You invade England, but you
can not complete the conquest so far from your shelter and supply. The king
desires peace.

William: Longshanks desires peace?

Isabella: He declares it to me, I swear it. He proposes that you withdraw
your attack. In return he grants you title, estates, and this chest of gold
which I am to pay to you personally.

William: A lordship and titles. Gold. That I should become Judas?

Isabella: Peace is made in such ways.

William: Slaves are made in such ways. The last time Longshanks spoke of
peace I was a boy. And many Scottish nobles, who would not be slaves, were
lured by him under a flag of truce to a barn where he had them hanged. I
was very young, but I remember Longshank's notion of peace.

Isabella: I understand you have suffered. I know about your woman.

William: She was my wife. We married in secret because I would not share
her with an English Lord. They killed her to get to me. I have never spoken
of it. I don't know why I tell you now except I see her strength in you.
One day you'll be a queen, and you must open your eyes. You tell your king
that William Wallace will not be ruled, and nor will any Scot while I live.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Longshanks: Ah, my son's loyal wife returns unkilled by the heathen. So he
accepted our bribe?

Isabella: No, he did not.

Longshanks: Then why does he stay? My scouts tell me that he has not
advanced.

Isabella: He waits for you at York. He says he will attack no more towns or
cities, if you are man enough to come and face him.

Longshanks: Did he? The Welsh bowmen will not be detected arriving so far
around his flank. The main force of our armies from France will land here
to the north of Edinburgh. Conscripts from Ireland will approach from the
southwest to here.

Prince: Welsh bowmen, troops from France, Irish conscripts. Even if you
dispatch them today they will take weeks to assemble.

Longshanks: I dispatched them before I sent your wife. So our little ruse
succeeded. Thank you. And while this upstart awaits my arrival in York, my
forces will have arrived in Edinburgh behind him. You spoke with this
Wallace in private? Tell me, what kind of man is he?

Isabella: A mindless barbarian, not a king like you, my lord.

Longshanks: You may return to your embroidery.

Isabella: Humbly, my lord.

Prince: You brought back the money, of coarse.

Isabella: No, I gave it to ease the suffering of the children of this war.

Longshanks: haha! That's what happens when you send a woman.

Isabella: Forgive me, sire. I thought that generosity might demonstrate
your greatness to those you mean to rule.

Longshanks: My greatness will be better demonstrated when Wallace returns
to Scotland and finds his country in ashes.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hamish: William, there's riders approaching. Personal escort of the
princess. You must have made an impression.

William: Ay.

Hamish: I didn't think you were in the tent that long.

William: (in French) Miss.

Nicolette: (in French) A message from my mistress.

William: (in French) Thank you.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Stephen: It's true. The English ships are moving up from the south. I don't
know about the Welsh yet, but the Irish have landed. I had to see it with
me own eyes before I could believe it.

Hamish: What the hell are the Irish doing fighting with the English?

Stephen: I wouldn't worry about them. Didn't I tell you before, it's my
island.

William: Hamish, ride ahead to Edinburgh and assemble the council. Order
it.

Hamish: Ay.

William: Your island?

Stephen: My island!

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mornay: This time our only option is to negotiate.

William: My army has marched for more days than I can remember, and we
still have preparations to make. So I'll make this plain. We require every
soldier you can summon. Your personal escorts, even yourselves. And we need
them now.

Craig: With such a force of raid against us, it is time to discuss other
options.

William: Other options? Don't you wish at least to lead your men onto the
field and barter a better deal with Longshanks before you tuck tail and
run?

Robert: Sir William.

Craig: We can not defeat this army.

William: We can.

Robert: Sir William.

William: And we will. We won at Stirling, and still you quibble. We won at
York and you would not support us. If you will not stand up with us now
then I say you're a coward.

(Hamish swings axe)

William: And if you are Scotsmen, I am ashamed to call myself one.

Robert: Please, Sir William. Speak with me alone. I beg you.

Robert: Now you've achieved more than anyone ever dreamed, but fighting
these odds it looks like rage, not courage.

William: It's well beyond rage. Help me. In the name of Christ help
yourselves. Now is our chance, now. If we join, we can win. If we win, well
then we'll have what none of us have ever had before: a country of our own.
You are the rightful leader, and there is strength in you. I see it. Unite
us. Unite us. Unite the clans. Alright.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Robert: This can not be the way.

Leper: You said yourself, the nobles will not support Wallace. So how does
it help us to join the side that is slaughtered?

Robert: I gave him my word.

Leper: I know it is hard. Being a leader is. Now son, son, look at me. I
can not be king. You, and you alone can rule Scotland. What I tell you, you
must do. Not for me, not for yourself, but for your country.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Soldier: Make way. Coming through. Make way lads.

Hamish: The Bruce is not coming, William.

William: He'll come. Mornay and Lochlan have come. So will the Bruce.

Longshanks: Quite a lovely gathering. Wouldn't you agree?

General: The archers are ready, sire.

Longshanks: Not the archers. My scouts tell me their archers are miles away
and no threat to us. Arrows cost money. Use up the Irish. Their dead cost
nothing. And send in the infantry and cavalry.

General: Infantry, cavalry, advance.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Irish advance and shake hands with the Scottish Army)

Longshanks: Irish!

William: Glad to have you with us. Watch this.

General: Mornay, Lochlan?

Longshanks: I gave Mornay double his lands in Scotland and matching estates
in England. Lochlan turned for much less. Archers.

General: I beg your pardon, sire. Won't we hit our own troops?

Longshanks: Yes, but we'll hit theirs as well. We have reserves. Attack.

General: Archers.

Longshanks: Send in our reinforcements.

General: Send in the rest.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Longshanks: Bring me Wallace. Alive if possible. Dead, just as good. Send
news of our victory. Shall we retire.

(William hit by arrow)

General: Protect the king.

Robert: AAAAAAAAHHHHHHHH!

(William sees that Robert has duble crossed him. He is shocked)

Robert: Get up! Get up! Get him out of here.

Stephen: Jesus!

Robert: Go!

Stephen: Ah!

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Campbell: I'm dying. Let me be.

Hamish: No, your going to live.

Campbell: I've lived long enough to live free; proud to see you become the
man you are. I'm a happy man.

(Hamish cries)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Leper: I'm the one who's rotting but I think your face looks graver than
mine. Son, we must have alliance with England to prevail here. You achieved
that. You saved your family, increased your land. In time, you will have
all the power in Scotland.

Robert: Lands, titles, men, power, nothing.

Leper: Nothing?

Robert: I have nothing. Men fight for me, because if they do not, I throw
them off my land and I starve their wives and their children. Those men who
bled the ground red at Falkirk, they fought for William Wallace, and he
fights for something that I've never had. And I took it from him when I
betrayed him and I saw it in his face on the battlefield, and it's tearing
me apart.

Leper: Well, all men betray. All lose heart.

Robert: I don't want to lose heart. I want to believe as he does. I will
never be on the wrong side again.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Mornay's dreaming)

Mornay: (crying) Ah!

(Wallace kills him and jumps out window)

Scottish noble: Lord Craig, is it true about Mornay?

Craig: Ay, Wallace rode into his bead chamber and killed him. More a
liability now then ever he was. And there's no telling who'll be next.

Robert: Maybe you, maybe me. It doesn't matter.

Craig: I'm serious, Robert.

Robert: So am I. Haha!

(Lochlan drops on table)

Craig: Search the place.

Noble: Lochlan.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Common towns people talking)

Common Scot: William Wallace killed 50 men. 50 in one.

Commoner #2: 100 men, with his own sword.

Commoner #3: Cut through them like Moses through the Red Sea.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Longshanks: His legend grows. It will be worse than before.

Hamilton: He rallies new volunteers in every Scottish town. And when he
replenishes his numbers, --

Longshanks: They're sheep, mere sheep. Easily dispersed if we strike the
shepherd. Very well. Take a flock of your finest assassins and set a
meeting.

Hamilton: My lord, Wallace is renowned for his ability to smell an ambush.

Longshanks: If what Lord Hamilton tells me is correct, he warmed to our
future queen and would trust her. So we'll dispatch her with the notion
that she comes in peace.

Hamilton: My Lord, the princess might be taken hostage, or her life be put
in jeopardy.

Longshanks: My son would be most distressed by that. But if she were to be
killed, we would soon find the King of France a useful ally against the
Scots. You see, as king, you must find the good in any situation.

Assassin: It's William Wallace sure. And he's given up his sword. Be ready.
(lots of screaming, hut is burned)

William: My lady. I received your message. This is the second time you've
warned me of danger. Why?

Isabella: There will be a new shipment of supplies coming north next month.
Food and weapons, they will--

William: Why do you help me? Why do you help me?

Isabella: Because of the way you are looking at me now.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Stephen: Just when we thought all hope was lost, our noble saviors have
arrived. Off with hoods.

Craig: Sir William, we've come to seek a meeting.

William: Well, what's the point? You've all sworn loyalty to Longshanks.

Craig: An oath to a liar is no oath at all. Every man of us is ready to
swear loyalty to you.

William: So let the council swear it publicly.

Craig: We can not. Some scarcely believe you are alive. Others think you
pay the Mornay's wages. So we (?) to Edinburgh. Meet us two days from now.
Give us your pardon and we'll unite behind you. Scotland will be one.

William: One? You mean us and you.

Craig: No, I mean this. It's the pledge of Robert the Bruce.

Hamish: You do know it's a trap. Tell him.

Stephen: I think if the Bruce wanted to kill you he'd have done it already
at Falkirk.

William: Ay.

Stephen: I know, I saw.

Hamish: I ain't leaving him aside. What about the others? The scheming
bastards couldn't agree on the color of shit. It's a trap, are you blind?

William: We've got to try. We can't do this alone. Joining the nobles is
the only hope for our people. You know what happens if we don't take that
chance?

Hamish: What?

William: Nothing.

Hamish: I don't want to be a martyr.

William: Nor I. I want to live. I want a home, and children, and peace.

Hamish: Do ya?

William: Ay, I do. I've asked God for these things. It's all for nothing if
you don't have freedom.

Hamish: That's all a dream, William.

William: A dream? Just a dream? What we've been doing all this time; we've
lived that dream.

Hamish: You dream isn't about freedom. It's about Murron. You're doing this
to be a hero because you think she sees you.

William: I don't think she sees me. I know she does. And your father sees
you, too.

(Hamish hits William)

Stephen: Jesus?! Shall I come with you.

William: No, I'll go alone.

Stephen: I'll see you after.

William: Right.

Stephen: Sooner rather than later, I hope.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Craig: He won't come.

Robert: He will. I know he will.

Guard: My Lord, he approaches.

(Robert sees trap)

Robert: NO!

Craig: Stay out of it, Robert.

Robert: Get Away! Get Away!

Craig: The Bruce is not to be harmed. That was the arrangement.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Robert: Father! You fooking bastard. Why? Why?

Leper: Longshanks required Wallace. So did our nobles. That was the prize
of your crown.

Robert: Die! I want you to die.

Leper: Soon enough I'll be dead. And you'll be king.

Robert: I don't want anything from you. You're not a man, and you're not my
father.

Leper: You are my son, and you have always known my mind.

Robert: You deceived me.

Leper: You let yourself be deceived. In your heart, you always knew what
had to happen here. At last, you know what it means to hate. Now you're
ready to be king.

Robert: My hate will die with you.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Executioner: William Wallace, you stand intained of High Treason.

William: Against whom?

Executioner: Against your king. Have you anything to say?

William: Never in my whole life did I swear allegiance to him.

Executioner: It matters not. He is your king. Confess, and you may receive
a quick death. Deny, and you must be purified by pain. Do you confess? Do
you confess? Then on the morrow you shall receive your purification.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Guard: Your Highness.

Isabella: I will see the prisoner.

Guard: We've got orders from the king that no one--

Isabella: The king will be dead in a month and his son is a weakling. Who
do you think will rule this kingdom? Now open this door.

Guard: Majesty: Come on, back on your feet.

(Guard kicks William)

Isabella: Stop it. Leave me. I said leave me.

William: My lady.

Isabella: Sir, I've come to beg you to confess all and swear allegiance to
the king, that he might show you mercy.

William: Will he show mercy to my country?

Isabella: Mercy is to die quickly, perhaps even live in a tower. In time,
who knows what could happen.

William: If I swear to him, then all that I am is dead already.

Isabella: You will die. It will be awful.

William: Every man dies, not every man really lives.

Isabella: Drink this. It will dull your pain.

William: No. It will numb my wits, and I must have them all. For if I'm
senseless or if I wail, then Longshanks will have broken me.

Isabella: I can't bear the thought of your torture. Take it.

William: Alright.

(They kiss, and William spits it out)

Isabella: I have come to beg for the life of William Wallace.

Prince: You're quite taken with him, aren't you.

Isabella: I respect him. At worst he was a worthy enemy. Show mercy, O
great king, and win the respect of your own people. Even now you are
incapable of mercy. And you. To you that word is as unfamiliar as love.

Prince: Before he lost his powers of speech he told me his one comfort was
he would live to know Wallace was dead.

Isabella: You see, death comes to us all. But before it comes to you, know
this. Your plot dies with you. A child who is not of your line grows in my
belly. Your son will not sit long on the thrown, I swear it.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

(crowd cheers)

William: I am so afraid. Give me the strength to die well.

Common man: Here he comes!

(crowd throws food at him)

Executioner: Now behold the awful prize of treason. You will fall to your
knees now. Declare yourself the king's loyal subject, and beg his mercy,
and you shall have it.

(no response)

Executioner: Rope. Stretch him. That's it, stretch him. Pleasant, yes? Rise
to your knees, kiss the royal emblem on my cloak, and you will feel no
more.

(no response)

Executioner: Rack him. Enough?

(they put William on the cross, and begin disembowelment) (William in
serious pain)

Executioner: It can all end, right now. Peace. Bliss. Just say it. Cry out
mercy.

(crowd repeats "mercy")

Executioner: Cry out. Just say it. Mercy.

Hamish: Mercy lad, mercy.

Stephen: Jesus, mercy.

Executioner: The prisoner wishes to say a word.

William: FREEEEE-DOMMMMMM!

(William is beheaded)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Robert (narrator): After the beheading, William Wallace's body was torn to
pieces. His head was placed on top on London Bridge, his arms and legs sent
to the four corners of Britain as a warning. It did not have the effect
that Longshanks planned. And I, Robert the Bruce, rode out to pay homage to
the armies of the English king and accept his endorsement of my crown.

English noble: I hope you've washed your ass this morning. It's about to be
kissed by a king.

Craig: Come. Lets get it over with.

Robert: Stop. You have bled with Wallace, now bleed with me.

Craig: Ah!

Hamish: Yea!

(Throws sword; sword lands)

Crowd: WALLACE, WALLACE, WALLACE, WALLACE. AAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHH!

(Scots charge)
William (narrating): In the year of our Lord 1314, patriots of Scotland,
starving and outnumbered, charged the fields at Bannockburn. They fought
like warrior poets. They fought like Scotsmen. And won their freedom.

