
Chill Factor - 



SCENE
  EXT. JUNGLE/TEST SITE - HORN ISLAND, 
SOUTH PACIFIC - 1977- DAY.


BRYNNER
Hemmings!  Sam, I thought I told you to 
close up shop and be ready to move up the 
island by night-...

BRYNNER
(off) ...-fall.

HEMMINGS
Yes, Captain Brynner, you did, but-but--

BRYNNER
(off) (interrupting) But...

BRYNNER
...what, Sam?  Can't I go down to the 
loading dock for a few hours without 
coming back to find a major...

BRYNNER
(off) ...screwup?

HEMMINGS
Uh, with all due respect, sir, Dr. Long 
told me to prep the field for detonation 
at...

HEMMINGS
...noon.

BRYNNER
Jesus Chri--  We're on a very slippery 
slope here, Sam.  A covert military 
operation riddled with civilian...

BRYNNER
(off) ...scientists.

HEMMINGS
You don't think it's that bad, do you, 
sir?  I mean, Long's spent the last two 
years developing his defoliant.  The 
stuff can't even kill crabgrass yet.

BRYNNER
Where's their protective...

BRYNNER
(off) ...gear?

HEMMINGS
(off) It's a hundred degrees...

HEMMINGS
...out here, captain.  Don't you think 
the guys deserve a break?

BRYNNER
They'll get a break tomorrow.

BRYNNER
We're not gonna take chances on our last 
day.

SCENE
  INT. BLOCKHOUSE/LABORATORY - DAY.


NARRATIVE TITLE
CAUTION










NARRATIVE TITLE
NOTICE







TELSTAR
(pants) Hey...

TELSTAR
(off) ...doc.  What's up?

TELSTAR
I thought we wrapped the tests yes-...

TELSTAR
(face off) ...-terday.  Captain Brynner 
is...

TELSTAR
...gonna shit if he finds out we haven't 
closed up...

TELSTAR
(face off) ...shop.

LONG
I had something of an epiphany this 
morning, Telstar.  I eliminated the 
binary shell and I grafted the cobalt ion 
to the other side of the molecule.  I 
think it might give us a significantly 
more rapid chemical ignition.

TELSTAR
It better.

SCENE
  INT. BLOCKHOUSE/COMPUTER ROOM - DAY.


SWEENEY
(grunts)

LONG
Mr. Sweeney, how goes it?

SWEENEY
Well, (clears throat) Costello's finished 
with the stability profile, but Abbott is 
still chewing on the load file.

LONG
So reaction temperature is fifty degrees.

SWEENEY
Well, your prediction was on the nose.

LONG
How much longer for the range and power 
projections?

SWEENEY
(sighs) (raspberries) I don't know.  Um, 
he's working, but there's a lot of data.  
Maybe...another hour?

LONG
We don't have an hour.  We're already 
supposed to be shut down.

SCENE
  INT. BLOCKHOUSE/LABORATORY - DAY.


BRYNNER
Doc-...

BRYNNER
(off) ...-tor Long.

BRYNNER
What the hell is all this about a 
detonation today?  We're scheduled...

BRYNNER
...to be off the island tonight.

LONG
And I changed the schedule.

LONG
I don't work for you, Captain Brynner.

BRYNNER
Sweeney tells me you don't have computer 
confirmation?

LONG
You know, captain, if you hadn't spent so 
much of your career questioning your 
superiors, you might've found yourself 
with more gold leaf on your col-...

LONG
...-lar.

BRYNNER
This isn't some kind of pissing contest, 
Long.  You may be in charge here, but 
those men out there are my responsi-...

BRYNNER
...-bility.

LONG
Look, this is a scientific experiment, 
okay?

LONG
If it works, your stock at the Pentagon 
will go up along with mine.  I don't 
think I need to mention you could use the 
help.

BRYNNER
The NSA thinks the UN is onto your 
work...

BRYNNER
...here, and the White House is screaming 
about chemical weapons, (face off) and 
we're...

BRYNNER
...sittin' here with our hands in the 
goddamn cookie jar!  And let me tell you 
something else.  I didn't join the 
service to let people like you turn...

BRYNNER
...the United States into the kind of 
country we're supposed to be fighting 
against.

LONG
(overlapping) But you have no choice but 
to follow orders.

LONG
Now listen to me.

LONG
Now, I know.  You have moral objections 
to what we're doing here, but believe...

LONG
...me, if I thought there was any real 
danger, I-I wouldn't go forward.

LONG
You have my word on that.

BRYNNER
(sighs) (whispering) All right. (in 
normal voice) One more shot, provided... 
(sighs) we're off the island tonight.

LONG
Let's proceed.

TELSTAR
Ladies and gentlemen...Elvis is 
approaching the stage.

TELSTAR
(grunts)

LONG
Safe distance -  Two hun-...

LONG
...-dred yards.

LONG
And make sure Hemmings hears you say it.

SCENE
  EXT. JUNGLE/TEST SITE - DAY.


MEN AT SITE
(low and indistinct chatter and grunts - 
continues under following scenes and 
dialogue)

TELSTAR
(grunts) Two hundred yards, Hemmings.

TELSTAR
D minus five.

HEMMINGS
(off) All right, we're movin' out, men.

TELSTAR
(grunts)

SCENE
  INT. BLOCKHOUSE/COMPUTER ROOM - DAY.


SWEENEY
(hums "Do You Know the Muffin Man?")

SCENE
  EXT. JUNGLE/TEST SITE - DAY.


TELSTAR
(grunts) (sighs)

SCENE
  INT. BLOCKHOUSE/COMPUTER ROOM - DAY.


SWEENEY
(grunts)

SWEENEY
Jesus. (to Long) Dr. Long!

SCENE
  INT. BLOCK HOUSE/LABORATORY - DAY.


SWEENEY
(off) Dr. (on) Long!

SWEENEY
(panting) I got eight thousand yards.  
Radius is five...

SWEENEY
(off) (panting) ...miles. (pants - 
continues under following scene and 
dialogue)

LONG
What?

BRYNNER
(off) Long...

BRYNNER
...what the hell?

SWEENEY
(off) Abbott's pre-...

SWEENEY
...-dicting the effective detonation 
radius is five...

SWEENEY
(off) ...miles!

BRYNNER
That's the entire island!

SWEENEY
We've gotta shut it down.

SWEENEY
(off) We gotta shut it down!

LONG
(quoting) "I am become Death, the...

LONG
(off) ...destroyer of worlds."

LONG
No!

LONG
No!

BRYNNER
(shouts indistinct)

LONG
You'll kill us all!

BRYNNER
Damn you, Long!  My people are out there!  
Your people are out there!

LONG
(overlapping) It's too...

LONG
...late!  It's too late!

SCENE
  EXT. BLOCKHOUSE - DAY.


TELSTAR
(gasps and pants - continues under 
following scene)

TELSTAR
(yells)

SCENE
  INT. BLOCKHOUSE - DAY.


TELSTAR
(off) (sobbing) Let me in!

GENERAL
(voice over) Captain Andrew Thomas 
Brynner.

TELSTAR
(off) (overlapping) (sobbing) Please let 
me in! (sobs indistinct - continues under 
following scene and dialogue)

ADAMS
(voice over) It is the opinion of this 
review panel...

ADAMS
(voice over) ...that the verdict 
delivered in this case is justified, and 
that you are in fact...

ADAMS
(voice over) ...guilty of criminal 
negligence resulting in the deaths of 
eighteen members of a military research 
team...

SCENE
  EXT. JUNGLE/TEST SITE - DAY.


ADAMS
(voice over) ...on the date of August 
eighteenth, nineteen seventy-seven.

SCENE
  INT. MILITARY COURTROOM - DAY.


ADAMS
(reading) "It is also this panel's 
opinion that the sentence of reduction in 
rank...

ADAMS
(off) (reading) ...forfeiture of all pay 
and allowances and twenty years in the 
United States disciplinar-...

ADAMS
(reading) ...-y command at Fort 
Leavenworth is justified.

ADAMS
(reading) Furthermore, you are advised 
that, while you are a prisoner, you 
remain bound by the National Security Act 
of nineteen forty-sev-...

ADAMS
(off) (reading) ...-en.  If you divulge 
classified information or discuss the 
nature of the project in which you were 
involved...

ADAMS
(reading) ...you will face further 
prosecution."  Do you under-...

ADAMS
(off) ...-stand?

GENERAL
I assume your silence indicates assent.  
Transfer to Leavenworth will be 
immediate.  You're dismissed.

LONG
(off) Andrew...

LONG
...I wish they would've let me say 
something...

LONG
...about--

BRYNNER
(interrupting) There's nothing to say, 
doctor.  Someone had to take the fall, 
and they still need you, whereas...I've 
never been anything more than a thorn in 
their collective side, as you once said.

BRYNNER
So I'll be locked safely away in some 
hole along with my secret sins.  And 
yours.

SCENE
  INT. FORT LEAVENWORTH/CELLBLOCK - DAY.


NARRATIVE TITLE
FORT LEAVENWORTH

SCENE
  INT. FORT LEAVENWORTH/BRYNNER'S CELL - 
DAY.


BRYNNER
(sighs)

SCENE
  EXT. FORT LEAVENWORTH - TEN YEARS LATER 
- DAY.


NARRATIVE TITLE
TEN YEARS LATER

SCENE
  INT. FORT LEAVENWORTH/BRYNNER'S CELL - 
DAY.


YOUNG GUARD
Ready?

SCENE
  EXT. RIVER - DAY.


MASON
(grunts)

MASON
Been trying to figure out your secret.

LONG
My secret?

MASON
Yeah.  Ten months we've been fishin' this 
river together.  We use the same 
equipment, more or less...

MASON
(off) ...but you pull twice as many fish 
out of the water as I do.

MASON
And I'm good at this.  Been doing it 
since I was a kid.  But you, I don't 
know.  Somehow you think...

MASON
(off) ...like a fish.

LONG
(chuckles) (chuckling) No, that's not 
possible, Mason.  The trout... (grunts)

LONG
(off) ...is a perfect hunter.

LONG
(off) He's brains without ambition...

LONG
...sensitivity without neurosis.  He's...

LONG
(off) ...the master of his realm.

LONG
(face off) How can we ever hope to win 
against the trout?

LONG
There's only one way you can do it, 
Mason.

LONG
(off) Turn the power of the hunter 
against him.

LONG
Tie a fly...

LONG
(off) ...create a piece of bait that 
sends the fish's instincts into 
overdrive...

LONG
...forcing him to strike.  And only then 
does our noble friend realize that the 
prey...can bite...

LONG
(face off) ...back...

LONG
...and that power...

LONG
(face off) ...without caution...

LONG
...is death.

MASON
Some people might say you're readin' an 
awful lot in-...

MASON
(off) ...-to a simple thing like...

MASON
(off) ...fishin'.

LONG
(off) Some people might.

LONG
But I don't think you would.

SCENE
  INT. DARLENE'S STORE - DAY.


MASON
(exhales)

DARLENE
(off) Goddamn it, Ma-...

DARLENE
(off) ...-son.  Of all the days for you 
to show up late. (sighs) First, the idiot 
April calls in sick.  Then I got a bad 
tooth...

DARLENE
...and then my night man shows up when he 
feels like...

DARLENE
...it.

MASON
Darlene, it's five-thirty.  Now, I worked 
late for you this mornin', and you didn't 
wanna spring for over-...

MASON
(face off) ...-time, (off) remember?

DARLENE
Oh.  Well, I have got to get to the 
dentist be-...

DARLENE
...-fore he closes, which means you're 
gonna have to cover the grill and the 
floor.

MASON
I can handle it.

DARLENE
Mm.  It doesn't take a genius.

DARLENE
(sighs) How'd we do today, doc?

LONG
(sighs) Oh, caught a few, lost a few.

DARLENE
(chuckles) Story of my life. (sighing) 
Well, one thing you won't lose is that 
friend of yours back there, I'll tell you 
that.

LONG
Oh, no?

DARLENE
Oh, you're two of a kind, doc.  Oh, he 
may not have your sheepskins, and...

DARLENE
(off) ...well, most of the time he looks 
like something the cat might have dragged 
in, but, you know...

DARLENE
...he's smart enough to get you...

DARLENE
(off) ...somehow. (chuckles - continues 
under following scene)

DARLENE
There's something else too.

LONG
Uh, we both like to fish.

DARLENE
(grunts) Secrets.

LONG
Ah.

DARLENE
His I know.  Yours I don't have a clue. 
(grunts) But if it wasn't for you, I 
think he'd have drifted right on through 
this town.

DARLENE
(chuckles)

LONG
You know, I have yet to get a simple cup 
of coffee and a meal in this place, 
Darlene.

DARLENE
And you ain't gonna start now.

DARLENE
Ma-...

DARLENE
(off) ...-son!

MASON
Yeah?

DARLENE
Be sure you feed Bosco.

DARLENE
And don't give him any ice cream...

DARLENE
(off) ...like April.  It gives him gas.  
And make sure there's (on) two pots of 
coffee...

MASON
(off) (overlapping) Two pots of coffee...

DARLENE
(off) ...ready before the morning crowd 
blows in.

MASON
(off) (overlapping) ...ready before the 
morning crowd blows in.  I got it...

MASON
(off) ...Darlene.

LONG
(grunts)

BRYNNER
(face off) Is this stool taken?

LONG
No, go--

BRYNNER
You look good, Richard.

BRYNNER
You look fit...healthy...

BRYNNER
...not at all like a man responsible for 
the deaths of eighteen peo-...

BRYNNER
(off) ...-ple.

LONG
Is that why you're here?  To blame...

LONG
(off) ...me?  Well, you could've saved 
yourself the trip.

LONG
I know where the (chuckling) blame 
belongs.  But I didn't put you in prison, 
Andrew.  The government did...

LONG
...that.

BRYNNER
Oh, I'm well aware of what the government 
did, I assure you.  Actually, I've just 
come to say how grateful I am to you...

BRYNNER
(off) ...and the government.

LONG
Grateful?

BRYNNER
(off) Mm-hm.

BRYNNER
Together, you gave me the opportunity to 
realize just how very wrong my life had 
gone.

BRYNNER
(off) Do you remember telling me once 
that all through my career, I'd never fit 
in?  Well...

BRYNNER
...you were right, of course.  But 
after...

BRYNNER
(off) ...years of thinking the matter 
over, I began to see that the whole thing 
wasn't really my problem.

BRYNNER
What rational man could fit in with the 
sorts of things our government was doing?  
The sorts of things you've...

BRYNNER
(off) ...always done, Richard?

LONG
Do you think I haven't seen the bodies of 
those...

LONG
(off) ...men every time I've closed my 
eyes?  But after you went away, I--

BRYNNER
(interrupting) Went away? (chuckles - 
continues under following scene)

BRYNNER
(off) "Went away."  I like that.

BRYNNER
Almost quaint.

LONG
All right.  After they put you away...

LONG
...I began trying to find ways of 
controlling the effects of the weapon 
that we tested on Horn Island.

BRYNNER
And let me guess.  You failed.

LONG
So far, ye-yes.

BRYNNER
Why is it you scientists can create 
implements of destruction...

BRYNNER
(off) ...so quickly, but when it comes to 
cures and benefits, your...

BRYNNER
...speed is nothing short of glacial?

BRYNNER
(off) Though at least you're trying, 
Richard.  And if the road to hell is 
paved with good intentions...

BRYNNER
...we know you'll find your way there 
quickly.

BRYNNER
(off) And don't worry.

BRYNNER
It's not such a bad place.  I should 
know, after all.

MASON
Okay, doc.

MASON
The usual.  Doc.

SCENE
  EXT. U.S. ARMY RESEARCH 
LABORATORY/GUARD GATE - JEROME - NIGHT.


NARRATIVE TITLE
U.S. ARMY RESEARCH LAB. - JEROME

KIOSK GUARD
Good morning, Dr. Long.

LONG
Hi.

SCENE
  INT. U.S. ARMY RESEARCH LABORATORY - 
NIGHT.


PUMPER
Morning, doc.  Awful early, aren't ya?

LONG
Couldn't sleep, Pumper.  Is everything, 
uh, all right tonight?

PUMPER
There's nothin' goin' on out there, 
doc...except maybe the occasional fly 
fisherman.

LONG
(chuckles)

PUMPER
Hey, doc.  Might wanna...

PUMPER
...try this one out some-...

PUMPER
(off) ...-time. (chuckles)

LONG
Excellent.

PUMPER
(chuckles)

CHARACTER
FOOTAGEDIALOGUE

SCENE
  EXT. U.S. RESEARCH LABORATORY/GUARD 
GATE - NIGHT.


BRYNNER
Colonel Brynner.  I've got an appointment 
to see Doc-...

BRYNNER
(off) ...-tor Long.

MP
Can I see some I.D., sir?

BURKE
(grunts - continues under following 
scene)

SCENE
  INT. DENNIS & CARL'S VAN - NIGHT.


DENNIS
(into radio) Video lock.

DENNIS
(into radio) You got thirty minutes.

SCENE
  INT. U.S. RESEARCH LABORATORY/CORRIDOR 
- NIGHT.


GUARD #1
(grunts - continues under following 
scene)

GUARD #2
(grunts - continues under following 
scene)

BRYNNER
(indistinct)

SCENE
  INT. U.S. RESEARCH LABORATORY/LONG'S 
OFFICE - NIGHT.


LONG
(off) (grunts)

BRYNNER
(sighs) Forget about him.

BRYNNER
Let's find the prize.

BURKE
(grunts)

SCENE
  INT. U.S. RESEARCH LABORATORY/CORRIDOR 
- NIGHT.


BRYNNER
Vaughn.

VAUGHN
(into radio) We're in.

SCENE
  INT. U.S. RESEARCH LABORATORY/STORAGE 
AREA - NIGHT.


BRYNNER
This is it.

SCENE
  INT. U.S. RESEARCH LABORATORY/STORAGE 
AREA/FREEZER VAULT - NIGHT.


BRYNNER
(sighs)

SCENE
  INT. LONG'S CAR - NIGHT.


LONG
(pants)

LONG
(pants)

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - NIGHT.


MALE RAPPER #1
(over speaker) (raps under following 
scene and dialogue)

ARLO
(moans) That's right.

SCENE
  EXT. DARLENE'S STORE - NIGHT.


NARRATIVE TITLE
ANDY'S




ARLO
What, do you work for my boss, dog?

ARLO
Okay, okay.

ARLO
At least somebody likes this shit.

SCENE
  INT. DARLENE'S STORE - NIGHT.


MALE SINGER #1
(over speaker) (sings low and indistinct 
under following dialogue)

ARLO
Mornin'.

MASON
A little early for a delivery.

ARLO
Oh...

ARLO
...yeah.  Tryin' to get most of my day 
done before it hits nine-...

ARLO
...-ty.

MASON
Where's Sam?

ARLO
Sam?  Andy gave Sam a nice big desk to 
park his fat ass behind.

ARLO
Where do you want this stuff?

MASON
Freezer in the back.

ARLO
Great. (whistles - continues under 
following dialogue)

MASON
(face off) Art.

LEWIS
Morning, Mason.  Two large coffees to go, 
okay?

MASON
(off) All right.

PAPPAS
So, Mason, last Wednesday night, 
uh...were you out...

PAPPAS
(off) ...uh, drifting around like the 
trash you are, or were you here workin'?

MASON
If it was Wednesday night, I was workin'.

PAPPAS
(face off) Do you recognize this young 
man?

MASON
Nope. (grunts) Is there a prob-...

MASON
(off) ...-lem?

PAPPAS
You find yourself wearing a...

PAPPAS
(off) ...badge someday, then you can ask 
the questions.  Until then...

PAPPAS
(off) ...you answer mine.

PAPPAS
(off) Got that?

PAPPAS
So you don't remember...

PAPPAS
(off) ...selling this young man beer 
Wednesday night.

MASON
I don't sell beer to minors.  I take that 
kinda thing...

MASON
(off) ...seriously.

PAPPAS
(chuckles) That's not the way I...

PAPPAS
(off) ...hear it.  As a matter of fact--

LEWIS
(interrupting) Take it easy, Pappas. (to 
Mason) Mason, this boy says you did sell 
him beer...

LEWIS
(face off) ...that night.

MASON
Yeah.  Well, he's lyin'.

PAPPAS
Lying? (chuckles)

PAPPAS
(off) Mason, you wouldn't know the truth 
if it bit you.  We've got your whole 
record. (chuckles) We know about the-the 
conviction for vagrancy...

PAPPAS
...public drunkenness....

MASON
I didn't sell the boy any...

MASON
(face off) ...beer.

PAPPAS
Shut your mouth until I tell you...

PAPPAS
(off) ...to talk, son.

MASON
You know, I gotta tell you.  That really 
bothers me, somebody calls me "son."

PAPPAS
Then how about if I call you "ass-...

PAPPAS
(off) ...-hole"?

LEWIS
(off) All right, both of...

LEWIS
(off) ...you, just cool off.

LEWIS
(off) Look, Ma-...

LEWIS
...-son, maybe the kid showed you a fake 
I.D. or, uh, you forgot to check.

MASON
I didn't forget to check, and I know how 
to spot a fake I.D.

MASON
Especially from a little geek like 
that...

MASON
(off) ...kid.

PAPPAS
That little geek is my...

PAPPAS
(off) ...son.

LEWIS
(off) All right. (grunts) Enough.  
Look...

LEWIS
...Mason, I don't wanna hear about you 
sellin'...

LEWIS
...alcohol to minors.

MASON
(overlapping) I didn't sell any alcohol 
to any--

LEWIS
(interrupting) I'm not saying you did.  
Just don't, okay?  You make sure you keep 
your nose clean, we won't have any 
problems. (to Pappas) Let's go, Pappas.

LEWIS
I said let's...

LEWIS
(off) ...go.

PAPPAS
You got a prob-...

PAPPAS
(off) ...-lem too?

ARLO
No, sir.  I've never seen this guy 
before.

PAPPAS
(chuckles)

ARLO
Sure as hell have met a few assholes like 
that, though.

ARLO
(off) (chuckles) (on) You gotta learn to 
lighten up when the man's in your face.

MASON
That's my business.

ARLO
No argument there.

MASON
The guy's a fuckin' moron.

ARLO
Hey, I'm with you on that one, my man.  
Prick.

MASON
Look, you need me to sign an invoice or 
somethin'?

ARLO
Uh, between this month and last month, 
you owe four hundred and seventeen 
dollars.  And we need that in cash.

MASON
Since when does...

MASON
...Darlene pay you in cash?

ARLO
Since today.  New policy.

MASON
(sighs - continues under following scene)

MASON
Yeah, well, Darlene didn't say anything 
about it to me, so tell Andy to bill her 
like usual and let them sort it out.  
Move.

ARLO
(grunts)

ARLO
Well, he told me to collect cash.

MASON
(sighing) Andy.  Another fuckin'...

MASON
(off) ...moron.

ARLO
Hey, you and I are seein' eye to eye on a 
whole range of issues this mornin'. 
(chuckles - continues under following 
scene)

ARLO
Uh, huh?

ARLO
Except for the fact that I need cash.

MASON
He could've called first.

ARLO
He could've.  That-That's true.  But that 
would've been smart...

ARLO
...and fair...

ARLO
...two things Andy is not.  Uh, but I 
tell you what.

ARLO
(face off) Bein' that it's cash, I'm 
gonna give you ten percent...

ARLO
...off.  Say, uh, three seventy-five.  
Seein' that we both have so much love...

ARLO
...for Andy, I'll tell him I lost a few 
cartons comin' over (face off) the 
mountain.

ARLO
That'll make up the difference, huh?

ARLO
(face off) Huh?

MASON
Well, Darlene usually gives me a signed 
check for emergencies.  I could always 
give you that.

ARLO
(overlapping) Oh.

MASON
Why don't I--?

ARLO
(interrupting) No, no, no, no, no, no.  
Wait.

ARLO
Night Shift, see?  A check is not cash.

ARLO
Cash got a whole lot of numbers on it.  
Pictures of old white men with messed-up 
hairdos.

ARLO
(off) That's what I need.

ARLO
(sighs) All right, all right.  I-I'll go 
you one better.  Two seventy-five and 
I'll tell him you'll make up the 
balance...

ARLO
(off) ...next month.  Huh?

LONG
(pants - continues under following scenes 
and dialogue)

MASON
Doc!

ARLO
(off) Aw!  Oh, Jesus.

MASON
(grunts) Hang on.  Hang on. 

LONG
Mason.

MASON
Shit!  Oh, shit. (grunts - continues 
under following scenes and dialogue)

LONG
(grunts and pants - continues under 
following scenes)

LONG
(panting) Is that...

LONG
(off) (panting) ...his truck? (pants - 
continues under following scene and 
dialogue)

ARLO
Yeah, that's my truck.

LONG
(panting) Mason, you have to take this...

LONG
(face off) (panting) ...to Fort McGruder 
in his truck. (pants - continues under 
following scenes and dialogue)

ARLO
Wait.  This town is full of trucks.  Nice 
new trucks.  You don't need to go...

ARLO
(off) ...take my sorry old truck.

LONG
(overlapping) We do need your truck.

MASON
Call an ambulance.

LONG
(off) (indistinct to) No...

LONG
...there's no time.

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - NIGHT.


BURKE
I don't see it.

BRYNNER
Turn around at the gas station.  Look 
behind the buildings.

SCENE
  INT. DARLENE'S STORE - NIGHT.


ARLO
So you called the damned thing Elvis

LONG
(shivering) I had no idea how powerful it 
was.

LONG
(off) (shivering) Eighteen men were k-
killed in sec-...

LONG
(off) (shivering) ...-onds...with just a 
fraction of what's in...

LONG
(shivering) ...here. (groans) (grunting) 
Mason... (shivers - continues under 
following scene and dialogue)

ARLO
(sighs)

LONG
(shivering) ...about the man who did 
this, he's-he's comin' after it.

LONG
(shivering) You-You can't let him...

LONG
(off) (shivering) ...have it.  You have 
to...have to get it to M...to McGruder.

ARLO
(overlapping) (grunts) (whispering) Hey, 
actually...

ARLO
(whispering) ...why don't you make it a 
hundred and fifty dollars.  We'll call it 
a day.

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - NIGHT.


VAUGHN
(off) There.

BRYNNER
Check it out.

BRYNNER
(into radio) Carl...the main phone 
junction.

SCENE
  EXT. BRYNNER'S VAN - NIGHT.


BRYNNER
(off) (into radio) Move.  This is already 
affecting our schedule.

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - NIGHT.


BRYNNER
(into radio) Dennis, radio the bikes.  I 
wanna know if so much as a squirrel...

SCENE
  EXT. BRYNNER'S VAN - NIGHT.


BRYNNER
(into radio) ...comes up that road.

SCENE
  INT. DARLENE'S STORE - NIGHT.


LONG
(shivering) The compound has to be kept 
cold...

LONG
(off) (shivering) ...or it'll ignite. 
(shivers - continues under following 
dialogue)

MASON
Cold?  Cold.  How cold?

LONG
(shivering) Never let it reach fifty 
degre-degrees.

MASON
(pants) And what if it does?

LONG
(shivering) Everything will die, Mason.

LONG
(off) (shivering) In-In seconds, 
everything for hundreds...

LONG
(off) (shivering) ...of m-miles. 
(shivers)

LONG
(shivering) That's w-why you need his 
truck...

LONG
(off) (shivering) ...Mason.

SCENE
  EXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT.


VAUGHN
It's clean.

BRYNNER
Check the immediate area.

VAUGHN
This was supposed to be a...

VAUGHN
...quick in and out.

BRYNNER
You have ten percent of a hundred million 
dollars comin' your way.  I think we can 
impose on you for a little overtime.

SCENE
  INT. DARLENE'S STORE - NIGHT.


LONG
(shivering) You're the only one I can 
trust.

LONG
(off) (shivering) The only one who 
understands what this me-...

LONG
(shivering) ...-m-means, Mason. 
(continues indistinct) (pants - continues 
under following scenes and dialogue)

MASON
Doctor.

MASON
Doc, wait.  Doc, wait.

MASON
(off) Wait, doc!

MASON
(crying and panting) No.  No.

MASON
(cries - continues under following scene)

ARLO
Sorry, man.  He's dead.

MASON
(off) (crying and whispering) No.

SCENE
  EXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT.


DENNIS
(grunts) It's after five...

SCENE
  INT. DARLENE'S STORE - NIGHT.


DENNIS
(off) ...sir.  Our satellite link is on 
schedule.  Should I start the feed?

MASON
(overlapping) (grunts)

BRYNNER
(off) Get 'em on line, then stall.  Long 
can't have gotten far.

CARL
Closin' down, sir.

BRYNNER
Vaughn, Burke, move to the end of the 
street.  Fan out and work your way back 
to the motel.

BRYNNER
(off) (low and indistinct)

MASON
We gotta get help. (to himself) Aw, fuck! 
(panting) Damn.

MASON
Mornin'.

BRYNNER
Is this your establishment?

MASON
Yeah, they call me Dar-...

MASON
(off) ....-lene.

BRYNNER
Well, then, how about a cup of coffee, 
Darlene?

BRYNNER
Iced coffee.

MASON
I assume you want that to go.

BRYNNER
Assumptions are always...

BRYNNER
(face off) ...dangerous.

MASON
Quite a getup for jacking...

MASON
(off) ...deer.

BRYNNER
I beg your pardon?

MASON
Uh, you wanna hunt outta season, it's 
cool with me.  But mostly, well, they 
just take a six...

MASON
...and a rifle.  You, on the other 
hand...

MASON
...look like you're after something more 
dangerous.

BRYNNER
Actually, I was just looking for a 
restroom.

BRYNNER
I assume you have one.

MASON
Assumptions are always dangerous.

MASON
There is one in the back.

ARLO
(whispering) Hey.

ARLO
(whispering) Hey, be cool.

ARLO
(whispering) Be cool. (in normal voice) 
Be--

ARLO
That was quick.

BRYNNER
(off) (chuckles - continues under 
following scene)

BRYNNER
To tell you the truth, we're looking for 
a scientist who's gone missing from the 
Tech Center.  Maybe you know him.  
Richard Long.

BRYNNER
(off) We're worried...

BRYNNER
...about him.

ARLO
I'll keep an eye out.

MASON
(off) Doc...

MASON
(off) ...Long.

MASON
Doc Long.  Yeah, I know him.  Weirdo guy.  
He comes in from...

MASON
(off) ...time to time, yeah.

MASON
Not tonight...

MASON
(off) ...though.

BRYNNER
(grunts)

BRYNNER
Odd, then, that his car...

BRYNNER
(off) ...should be right outside.

MASON
Like I say, Doc Long's...

MASON
...an odd guy.

MASON
Say, general.

MASON
That'll be fifty cents for the coffee.

ARLO
What did I say?

ARLO
(off) Dude in uniform get in your face, 
you do not shoot your mouth off.

MASON
I need your truck.

ARLO
(chuckles - continues under following 
scene)

ARLO
No, no, no.  You don't need my truck.  
You need somebody else's truck...

ARLO
(off) ...and a shitload of ice.

MASON
Look, if I don't get this stuff to 
McGruder, it's goodbye, Andy's Ice Cream, 
goodbye, Jerome, goodbye, Mon-...

MASON
(off) ...-tana.

ARLO
Wait, wait.  You don't believe the dead 
guy, do...

ARLO
(off) ...ya?

MASON
Yeah, I believe him.  He was my friend.

ARLO
For cryin' out loud.

ARLO
(off) Hey, listen!  Do you know what I 
think?  I...

ARLO
...think he was a wacko.  And I think 
that G.I. ninja's a bigger wacko.  And I 
think you're the biggest wack-...

ARLO
(off) ...-o of all, wantin' to be a part 
of this wacko shit!

MASON
I need your help.

ARLO
You are seriously mistaken if you think 
you are going anywhere in my...

ARLO
(off) ...truck.

MASON
Then you drive me to McGrud-...

MASON
(off) ...-er.

ARLO
Look...I got two tons of the world's 
nastiest ice cream sittin' in a truck 
that should've been retired ten years 
ago.  That shit will be worthless by 
noon.

ARLO
(off) And if that Elvis shit...

ARLO
...is as dangerous as you seem to think 
it is, I'm gettin' my ass as far away 
from you and it as possible. (kisses)

ARLO
Peace.

MASON
(overlapping) All right.

ARLO
(indistinct - continues under following 
dialogue)

MASON
(off) Wait, wait, wait.  Hold up.  Hold 
up.  Look.

MASON
You want cash?

MASON
(off) You want cash?

MASON
I got, like, uh....

MASON
(face off) I got, uh....

MASON
I got fifty bucks.  I'll get more.

MASON
(off) I'll rent the truck from you.  You 
can stay here, you can go.  Whatever you 
want.

ARLO
No.

MASON
All right, then how about this?

ARLO
Hey, you're gonna piss me--  What the 
hell are you supposed to be...

ARLO
(off) ...doing?!

MASON
(emphasizing) I need your truck!

ARLO
You are not takin' my truck!

ARLO
How far you got to go?

SCENE
  EXT. DARLENE'S STORE - NIGHT.


MASON
(whispering) Go on.

ARLO
(pants) Would you hurry up, please?

MASON
Look, put this in the back.  Keep it 
safe.

ARLO
(sighs) (grunts)

MASON
There we go.  There we go.  Did you keep 
it safe?  Did you (continues indistinct)

ARLO
What the hell is with you, dog?  He's the 
one with the damn gun.

MASON
You gave him ice cream, didn't you?  Come 
on, let's go.

ARLO
(overlapping) Yeah, to keep him off my 
ass.

MASON
What did you do that for?  It makes him 
mean as a snake.

ARLO
That dog was mean before I met him.

MASON
That dog ain't mean.

ARLO
(overlapping) I'm gonna stomp your a--

MASON
(overlapping) Come on, get in the truck.

ARLO
I'm gonna bust a mudhole in your ass.  
I'm gonna--  Don't tell me to shut--  
It's none of your business.  Man, I can 
talk all I want to.

MASON
(off) Shut...

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - NIGHT.


MASON
(off) ...up.

ARLO
Are you kiddin'?

MASON
(overlapping) (sighs)

MASON
Come on!

ARLO
Damn.

MASON
(off) What the hell's goin' on?

ARLO
It happens to this piece of shit...

ARLO
(off) ...all the time.

ARLO
Damn diesel injections are flood-...

MASON
(off) (overlapping) Excuse me...

ARLO
(off) ...-ed.

MASON
(overlapping) ...excuse me.  Can you fix 
this?

ARLO
Do you wanna give me a minute?

MOTEL MANAGER
(off) Well, if it's for national se-...

SCENE
  EXT. MOTEL - NIGHT.


NARRATIVE TITLE
MOTEL

MOTEL MANAGER
(face off) ...-curity, I guess it's (on) 
okay.

MOTEL MANAGER
I just hope we don't bust in on anybody 
doing what people do in (chuckling) 
motels.

SCENE
  EXT. ICE CREAM TRUCK - NIGHT.


ARLO
(grunts)

ARLO
(grunts)

SCENE
  EXT. MOTEL - NIGHT.


BURKE
Wait for me here, sir, if you don't mind.

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - NIGHT.


MASON
Get in (continues indistinct)

SCENE
  EXT. DARLENE'S STORE - NIGHT.


BURKE
(grunts)

BURKE
(grunts) Damn dog.

MASON
(whispering) Hey.  Hey.

MASON
Hey.

MASON
Get back in...

MASON
(off) ...the truck.

ARLO
(indistinct to) help me get in the truck. 
(continues indistinct)

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAWN.


MASON
(off) (sighs - continues under following 
scene)

MASON
You'd better coast through...

MASON
...town. (sighs)

ARLO
(sighs)

SCENE
  EXT. ICE CREAM TRUCK - DAWN.


ARLO
(sighs)

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAWN.


MASON
We're clear.

ARLO
(chuckling) Oh, man.

SCENE
  EXT. ROAD - DAWN.


BLONDE BIKER
(into radio) All ready.  I copy.

BEARDED BIKER
Get Brynner on the radio.

BLONDE BIKER
(into radio) Come in, command.  Truck 
just passed...

SCENE
  INT. DENNIS & CARL'S VAN - DAWN.


BLONDE BIKER
(over radio) ...checkpoint.  Over.

DENNIS
Run that back.

CARL
Let me...

CARL
(off) ...enhance it.

DENNIS
Print it.

DENNIS
(off) Sir...

DENNIS
...transmission just...

DENNIS
(off) ...came in.

BRYNNER
Well.  It appears someone's been lying to 
us.

SCENE
  INT. DARLENE'S STORE - DAY.


BRYNNER
(sniffs)

BRYNNER
Radio the bikes.

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.


VAUGHN
Sir, all potential customers have been 
informed of the delay.  Fur-...

VAUGHN
(off) ...-ther orders?

BRYNNER
No.  A pair of average citizens have 
decided to risk their lives for their 
country.  I almost remember what that 
feels like.

CHARACTER
FOOTAGEDIALOGUE

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY.


MASON
No cell.

ARLO
Suppose you're gonna shoot me because you 
can't get service on my cell phone.

NARRATIVE TITLE
BILLINGS










MASON
Billings?  No, no, no, no, no.  We need 
to go to McGruder.

ARLO
No, you gotta go to McGrud-...

ARLO
...-er.

MASON
No, no, no, no, no.  We gotta go to 
McGruder!  I go where the truck goes!

ARLO
No, no, no.

ARLO
To get to McGruder, you have to go 
through Missoula, and I ain't goin' to 
Missoula.

MASON
No way.  We're goin' through McGrud-...

MASON
(off) ...-er.

ARLO
I ain't goin' through Missoula!

MASON
Am I missing somethin' here?

ARLO
Look...I kinda borrowed the truck from 
Andy.

MASON
Borrowed.

ARLO
Yeah, borrowed!

MASON
You stole this truck.

MASON
You stole this truck!

ARLO
I did not steal this truck!

MASON
(overlapping) You stole this truck!  
That's...

MASON
...what all the bullshit about the cash 
was, wasn't it?!  You stole this truck, 
and now you're trying to sell...

MASON
...the ice cream for money!

ARLO
(overlapping) I didn't steal the truck!  
He owed it to me!  Anyway, the important 
thing is I'm not goin' through Missoula!

MASON
Look, I don't give a shit if you go 
through Missoula at a hundred miles an 
hour.  We're goin' to McGruder.

MASON
And remember, I still have this.  Yeah, 
that's what I thought.

SCENE
  EXT. ROAD - DAY.


ARLO
(off) I'm about to get in your ass like 
last year's underwear, man.

MASON
(off) That's...

MASON
(voice over) ...fine.

ARLO
(voice over) I ain't playin' that.

MASON
(voice over) (overlapping) Shut up.

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY.


MASON
(face off) (grunts - continues under 
following scene)

ARLO
Hey.

ARLO
We can't push old Pete in this heat.  He 
can't take it.

MASON
Fine. (sighs)

MASON
(grunts)

MASON
You better speed old Pete up.

SCENE
  EXT. ICE CREAM TRUCK - DAY.


BEARDED BIKER
(off) Pull it over!

BEARDED BIKER
Pull it over!

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY.


MASON & ARLO
(laugh)

MASON
Whoo!

MASON
Holy shit!

ARLO
(off) (overlapping) (grunts)

MASON
God-...

MASON
(off) ...-damn!

ARLO
(overlapping) Okay, okay! (exhales)

MASON
Ah, one of them's in the back.

MASON
No, no, no, no, no.  Keep goin'.

ARLO
(panting and whispering) Okay. (pants)

NARRATIVE TITLE
10% GRADES










MASON
(grunts)

ARLO
(sighs) (pants)

MASON
(off) (grunts)

MASON
(face off) (grunts)

SCENE
  EXT. ICE CREAM TRUCK - DAY. (INTERCUT 
WITH
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY)


MASON
(pants)

ARLO
You're nuts, goin' back there!

MASON
Shut up.

ARLO
(off) (pants - continues under following 
scene)

ARLO
Take your gun!

MASON
Doesn't work.

ARLO
What?

MASON
(off) Doesn't...

MASON
...work!  It's not even load-...

MASON
(off) ...-ed.

ARLO
You mean to tell me you hijacked me with 
an empty gun?!

ARLO
Hey!

ARLO
(off) When this is all over, re-...

ARLO
...-mind me to kick your ass!

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.


VAUGHN
Looks like our share just got bigger.

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY.


MASON
(grunts)

SCENE
  EXT. ICE CREAM TRUCK - DAY.


MASON
(grunts - continues under following 
scene)

MASON
(grunts)

MASON
(grunts - continues under following 
scenes)

MASON
(yells - continues under following 
scenes)

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/BOX - DAY.


MASON
(grunts)

MASON &


BLONDE BIKER
(grunt - continues under following 
scenes)

SCENE
  EXT. ICE CREAM TRUCK - DAY.


BLONDE BIKER
(grunts - continues under following 
scene)

MASON
(grunts)

MASON
(grunts)

BLONDE BIKER
(grunts - continues under following 
scenes and dialogue)

MASON
(grunts - continues under following 
scenes)

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY.


ARLO
(off) (whispering) Oh...

ARLO
(whispering) ...shit.

SCENE
  EXT. ROAD - DAY.


MASON
(grunts)

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY. 
(INTERCUT WITH
  EXT. ICE CREAM TRUCK - DAY)


ARLO
(whispering) Oh, shit.

MASON
(grunts)

MASON
(face off) (yells - continues under 
following scene)

MASON
(groans)

MASON
(groans - continues under following 
scene)

ARLO
(whispering) Oh...

ARLO
(off) (whispering) ...shit.

BLONDE BIKER
(face off) (grunts)

MASON
(yells - continues under following scene)

MASON
(grunts)

MASON
(groaning) Oh, no.

ARLO
Get him to stand up, Night Shift.

MASON
(grunting) All right.

ARLO
Okay!  All right!

MASON
(grunts)

SCENE
  EXT. MOTEL - DAY.


LEWIS
So you're sure it was Mason?

MOTEL MANAGER
Positive.

MOTEL MANAGER
He came out of the store with the ice 
cream guy.  The men from the base, they 
took off...

MOTEL MANAGER
...right after them.

LEWIS
Thank you.

MOTEL MANAGER
You're welcome.

PAPPAS
(overlapping) Thanks. (sighs)

LEWIS
It must've happened right after we left.

PAPPAS
Missoula's reporting the refrigerator 
truck as a stolen vehicle.  I told you 
Mason was walking shit.

LEWIS
Pappas, that other guy was unloading ice 
cream into a freezer.  Now, what could he 
have to do with a military scientist, 
huh?

PAPPAS
The sooner you get up the lab, the sooner 
you'll figure it out.

LEWIS
(chuckles)

LEWIS
(off) And where are you going?

PAPPAS
After that re-...

SCENE
  INT. PAPPAS' POLICE CAR - DAY.


PAPPAS
...-frigerator truck.

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY.


MASON
(face off) (grunts) (on) (pants) 
(panting) Elvis is on ice again.

ARLO
(panting) Okay.

MASON
(pants) (panting) Nice job back there.

MASON
(off) (pants - continues under following 
dialogue)

ARLO
Don't gimme that "nice job" shit, man!  
They still got a vanload comin', and what 
do you got besides an empty...

ARLO
(off) ...gun?!

MASON
I was thankin' you, asshole!

ARLO
Kiss my ass!

MASON
(pants - continues under following scene)

MASON
(panting) It's goin' through. (pants - 
continues under following dialogue)

FEMALE 911 OPERATOR
(over telephone) Emergency.  Please...

FEMALE 911 OPERATOR
(over telephone) ...hold.

MASON
(into telephone) You gotta b--! (to Arlo) 
They put me on hold!

ARLO
Probably because they know a psycho when 
they hear one.

MASON
(off) (overlapping) No...

MASON
...I'm not the psycho.

ARLO
Hey, take a look at your situation and...

ARLO
(off) ...reconsider that statement there, 
Night Shift.  You're psy-...

ARLO
...-cho and a hijack-...

ARLO
(off) ...-er!

MASON
(overlapping) Hi--!  The gun was empty!

ARLO
Every time I look at you, I wanna hit...

ARLO
...you.

MASON
You wanna hit me?

ARLO
And I'm a peaceful man, and...

ARLO
...I believe in live and...

MASON
(off) (overlapping) Yeah...

ARLO
...let live.

MASON
(overlapping) ...you stole the truck to 
uphold your principles, right?

ARLO
I did not steal the truck.

MASON
(off) (overlapping) (pants - continues 
under following dialogue)

ARLO
It was owed to me.  You stole the damn...

ARLO
(off) ...truck!

MASON
(overlapping) Shut up, shut up!  It's 
beeping.

ARLO
Well, then, that means it's call...

ARLO
(face off) ...waiting!

MASON
(off) You (face off) snatch that (off) 
phone (face off) from me one more time, 
I'm--

ARLO
(interrupting) Hey!  Hey! (into 
telephone) Andy's Ice Cream.

BRYNNER
(over telephone) Dutiful citizens, you 
have something which I have waited years 
for.

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY. (INTERCUT 
WITH
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY)


BRYNNER
(into telephone) Give it to me now, or 
you'll be dead...

BRYNNER
(over telephone) ...within five minutes.

ARLO
It's for you.

MASON
(into telephone) Yeah?

BRYNNER
(into telephone) Contrary to what Dr. 
Long may have told you, this is 
neither...

BRYNNER
(over telephone) ...your concern nor your 
fight.  Relinquish the package and you 
can go.

MASON
(into telephone) I don't know what the 
hell...

MASON
(off) (into telephone) ...you're talkin' 
about.

ARLO
What'd he say?

BRYNNER
(over telephone) Don't be tedious, 
waiter.  Dr. Long called it Elvis.

SCENE
  EXT. ROAD - DAY.


BRYNNER
(voice over) You have no idea what you're 
in possession of, do you?

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY.


ARLO
(pants - continues under following scene)

ARLO
(into telephone) Listen, shithead!

ARLO
(into telephone) I got three thousand 
dollars of highly perishable ice cream 
products that taste bad enough when 
it's...

ARLO
(over telephone) ...frozen!  So if you 
don't mind--!

BRYNNER
(into telephone) (overlapping) Just give 
me Elvis and I'll make sure you have 
enough money for a dozen ice cream 
trucks.

ARLO
(into telephone) I don't ever wanna see 
another ice cream...

ARLO
(off) (into telephone) ...truck!

MASON
Gimme this god-...

MASON
(face off) ...-damn phone.

MASON
(pants) (into telephone) Talk to me.

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY. (INTERCUT 
WITH
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY)


BRYNNER
(into telephone) I want you to look at 
one another...

BRYNNER
(over telephone) ...and ask a simple 
question -   Are you actually prepared...

BRYNNER
(over telephone) ...to die for a country 
that's...

BRYNNER
(over telephone) ...never done a thing 
for you?

BRYNNER
(into telephone) Because if you don't 
give me that cylinder, your lives will 
end...

BRYNNER
(over telephone) ...on this miserable 
road to nowhere.

BRYNNER
(over telephone) And I can't guarantee 
the end will be quick.

MASON
(into telephone) Elvis is fuckin' dead, 
man.  Get yourself some CDs.

MASON
(pants)

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.


BRYNNER
Vaughn, get the M-seventy-nine ready.

VAUGHN
You can't fire on them.  You're gonna 
detonate the crystals.

BRYNNER
Prep the launcher now.

BRYNNER
Now!

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY.


ARLO
(pants) (panting) Oh, shit.

SCENE
  EXT. ROAD - DAY.


BRYNNER
Your move. (to Vaughn) Okay, Vaughn, you 
drive.

ARLO
(off) Oh, my God.

MASON
Hey.  Hey, hey, hey!

MASON
(off) Stop!

MASON
(off) Stop this boat.

MASON
Whoa!  Slow...

MASON
(off) ...down.

MASON
(off) Stop!

MASON & ARLO
(off) (yell - continues under following 
scene)

ARLO
(off) (indistinct - continues under 
following scene)

MASON
(yells)

ARLO
Oh!

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY. 
(INTERCUT WITH
  EXT. ICE CREAM TRUCK - DAY)


MASON
Holy shit...

MASON
(off) ...man!

ARLO
Oh, shit.

MASON
Back up!  Back...

MASON
(off) ...up!

ARLO
(off) (grunts)

ARLO
Come on, old...

ARLO
(off) ...Pete!  Come on!  There it...

ARLO
(off) ...is, old Pete!  Come on, baby!

MASON
(face off) All right, you got it.

MASON
You got it.

MASON
(off) Go, go!

MASON
(off) Go!  Got it, got it, got it! 
(groans)

SCENE
  EXT. ROAD - DAY.


MASON
(grunts) Fuck! (pants)

MASON
(face off) (groans)

MASON
Oh, shit.

ARLO
(overlapping) (grunts) (pants) Oh, we're 
screwed, Night...

ARLO
...Shift.

ARLO
You can just bend over and kiss your 
crazy ass goodbye, buddy! (pants - 
continues under following dialogue)

MASON
I think...

MASON
...we can make it.

ARLO
You think we can make what?! (pants) You 
see that truck?!

ARLO
Eight and a half feet wide!  Weighs over 
five tons!

ARLO
Hey, and what if we (off) don't make it?!

MASON
(overlapping) (pants)

ARLO
Your weedkiller on steroids goes down 
with us!  Everybody (off) dies!

MASON
I don't think we have much of a choice...

MASON
(off) ...do we?

ARLO
Oh, shit.

MASON
(face off) That's right.  Now, (on) move!

ARLO
(overlapping) (pants - continues under 
following scene and dialogue)

MASON
(pants)

ARLO
Oh, shit.

ARLO
(off) (panting) Okay.

MASON
(groans) Okay. (grunts)

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY.


ARLO
Unbe-fucking-lievable.

SCENE
  EXT. ICE CREAM TRUCK - DAY.


ARLO
(grunts)

MASON
Goddamn!

ARLO
(overlapping) Oh, Petey.  Oh, Petey.  Oh, 
please, Pete.  Please don't do this to 
me.  Okay.

ARLO
Damn. (to Mason) Okay!  Okay!

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK - DAY. (INTERCUT 
WITH
  EXT. ROAD - DAY)


ARLO
(pants) (panting) I should've had that 
dog bite me.  I would've gotten rabies!  
Could've went to the hospital, had a 
pretty nurse!

ARLO
Hey, hey!  Whoo!  Okay.

MASON
(overlapping) Go, go, go, go, go.  Oh, 
shit.

MASON
(off) Oh, shit.

ARLO
Come on, old Pete.

ARLO
(off) Come on!

ARLO
(off) Come on, old Pete.

ARLO
(off) God, man!

ARLO
(off) I'm goin'.  I'm goin', baby.  I'm 
goin', I'm goin'.

MASON
(off) (overlapping) Oh...

MASON
...easy, easy, easy.

MASON
(off) Left, left, left!

MASON
Get over!  Get over!

ARLO
(off) Come on.

ARLO
Oh, shit. (to truck) Come on, old...

ARLO
(off) ...Pete!  Come on.

ARLO
(off) Come on, old Pete.  Oh.

ARLO
(off) I know the likeli-...

ARLO
(off) ...-hood of you knowin' any prayers 
is slim...

ARLO
...Night Shift, but you might...

ARLO
(off) ...wanna give it a try!

ARLO
(off) Come on, old...

ARLO
...Pete.  Come on.

MASON
(off) (groans - continues under following 
dialogue)

ARLO
(off) Come on.

ARLO
(off) Come on.

ARLO
(off) Come on...

ARLO
(off) ...you crazy bastard.

MASON
(off) All right, you got it, you got it!

MASON
(off) Got it, got it, got it!

MASON
Go, go, go, go, go!

MASON
Go!

SCENE
  INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY.


MASON
Whoo!

ARLO
(overlapping) Whoo!

MASON
I made it!

MASON
(off) (sighing) I made it.

ARLO
What are you talkin' about?!  I'm the one 
drivin'!

MASON
You okay?

ARLO
What the fuck was that?!

MASON
Shit.  You gotta pass him. (pants - 
continues under following dialogue)

ARLO
Gee, you think so?

ARLO
Holy--!

ARLO
(grunts) (pants) Okay.  That didn't work.

MASON
(overlapping) (pants) Gee, you think so?

ARLO
Shut up!

ARLO
(off) (indistinct - continues under 
following scene and dialogue)

MASON
Ho, ho...

ARLO
(off) (overlapping) Oh...

MASON
(off) ...ho!

ARLO
(off) (overlapping) ...shit!

MASON
(off) (shouts indistinct)

ARLO
(off) (overlapping) (indistinct - 
continues under following scene and 
dialogue)

MASON
Hang on!

MASON
(off) Hey!

ARLO
(yells)

MASON
(grunts) 

SCENE
  EXT. ROAD - DAY.


ARLO
(off) (grunts - continues under following 
scene)

ARLO
(off) (grunts and pants) Shit. (grunts 
and pants)

MASON
(off) (grunting) Go on.

ARLO
(face off) (grunting) Go, go.

MASON
(off) (grunts and pants - continues under 
following scene and dialogue)

ARLO
(off) (grunts and pants - continues under 
following scene and dialogue)

ARLO
(crying) Oh, Pete.  Oh, shit!  Oh, shit!

MASON
(pants)

ARLO
No. (groans) Shit.

MASON
(grunting) Come on.

ARLO
(overlapping) (grunts) Oh, shit.  Oh, 
shit. (pants - continues under following 
scene)

ARLO
Oh, shit. (panting) It's okay.  Okay. 
(grunts - continues under following 
dialogue)

MASON
(grunts - continues under following 
dialogue)

ARLO
Okay.

MASON
All right.

MASON
(panting) Okay.

ARLO
(panting) All right.

MASON
Gimme that, gimme that, gimme that.

ARLO
(overlapping) (panting) Okay.  Okay. 
(pants - continues under following 
dialogue)

MASON
(panting) These'll keep it cold.

ARLO
(panting) Yeah...

ARLO
(off) ...yeah.

MASON
(face off) (sighing) Aw, shit (continues 
low and indistinct) (grunts and pants)

ARLO
(grunts)

MASON
All right, let's go.

ARLO
(overlapping) (pants)

ARLO
(panting) Okay.  All right.  Okay. 
(grunts)

ARLO
(pants - continues under following scene 
and dialogue)

MASON
Hey, put it back!  We're takin' off.

MASON
Hey, wait, wait...

MASON
(off) ...wait!

MASON
(panting) I got an idea.

DRIVER
Hey, hey, what's goin' on here?  Are 
you...

DRIVER
(off) ...guys all right?

MASON
Just stay...

MASON
(off) ...back!

DRIVER
(grunts)

MASON
(off) Stay back!  I'm taking your boat.

ARLO
(face off) (overlapping) Listen! (on) 
Listen...

ARLO
...to him!  You don't know who...

ARLO
(face off) ...you're dealin' with!

MASON
I'm a dangerous man!

ARLO
Yeah, he's a dangerous...

ARLO
(face off) ...man!

ARLO
He's crazy!

MASON
I'm crazy?

MASON
I'm cra-...

MASON
...-zy!

DRIVER
(grunts)

ARLO
What are you doin'?

MASON
(off) (grunts - continues under following 
scene)

MASON
Taking it down the hill.

ARLO
You're--?  What?!

MASON
(grunts)

ARLO
You're not dangerous!  You're crazy!  I 
ain't gettin' in this damn thing!

MASON
Then stay...

MASON
...here!

ARLO
Oh, shit. (panting) Okay.  Come on.

MASON & ARLO
(grunt)

ARLO
(pants - continues under following scene)

ARLO
Oh, hell...

ARLO
(off) ...no!!

ARLO
(pants - continues under following 
dialogue)

MASON
I don't want you to come anyway. (pants - 
continues under following dialogue)

ARLO
What?

MASON
Come on!

ARLO
(whimpering) Oh, shit.

ARLO
(panting) Oh, shit! (face off) Oh, (on) 
shit.

SCENE
  EXT. HILLSIDE - DAY.


ARLO
(yells - continues under following scenes 
and dialogue)

MASON
(off) (yells - continues under following 
scenes)

MASON & ARLO
(overlapping, indistinct chatter, grunts 
and yells - continues under following 
scenes)

MASON & ARLO
(pant - continues under following scene)

ARLO
(yells)

ARLO
(grunts - continues under following 
scene)

ARLO
(pants - continues under following scenes 
and dialogue)

MASON
Keep still.

ARLO
(whispering) Okay.  Okay.

ARLO
(yells - continues under following scenes 
and dialogue)

MASON
(yells - continues under following 
scenes)

ARLO
Oh, shit!

MASON
(overlapping) No!

ARLO
Oh, no!

ARLO
Oh, no!

MASON
(overlapping) (grunts)

ARLO
(off) (yells - continues under following 
scenes)

SCENE
  EXT. RIVER - DAY.


MASON & ARLO
(gasp and grunt)

MASON
Whoo!

ARLO
(pants) Whoo-hoo-hoo!  Whoo-hoo-hoo!

MASON & ARLO
(laugh)

MASON & ARLO
(face off) (grunt)

MASON
(off) (pants - continues under following 
dialogue)

ARLO
(chuckles) (panting) All right.  Hey.

MASON
(off) (grunts - continues under following 
scene and dialogue)

ARLO
(grunts)

MASON
(face off) (groans - continues under 
following scene)

MASON
(laughs - continues under following 
dialogue)

ARLO
Whoo-hoo-hoo!

MASON & ARLO
(in unison) Whoo-hoo! (continues under 
following scene)

ARLO
Are you crazy?!  Take the boat?!

SCENE
  EXT. ROAD - DAY.


CARL
(grunts) (panting) There's nothing in 
here, sir.  They got away with it.

BRYNNER
All right.  Let's clear the mess and move 
out.

CARL
(sighs)

CHARACTER
FOOTAGEDIALOGUE

SCENE
  EXT. ROWBOAT - DAY.


ARLO
Uh-oh.

MASON
What?

ARLO
This thing just went up a degree.  Ice 
cream's not workin'.

MASON
This river's fed by a glacier.  Willing 
to bet my life that it's a good deal 
under fifty degrees.

ARLO
Okay.

ARLO
Worth a try.

MASON
(sighs - continues under following scene)

ARLO
Hey, you didn't happen to lock the truck 
up when you got out...

ARLO
(off) ...did you?

MASON
You're fucked, man.

ARLO
See, now why would you do that to a man 
in my posi-...

ARLO
(off) ...-tion?

MASON
Hey, I didn't steal the truck.  You...

MASON
(face off) ...stole the truck.

ARLO
(overlapping) Hey, I told you I did not 
steal that truck.  Andy owes me a lot 
more than that four-wheeled...

ARLO
(off) ...piece of shit was worth.

MASON
It won't even start half the time.

ARLO
(off) You know what I'm sayin'?

ARLO
I deserve a lot more than that truck!  
Ten years, ten years I busted my ass for 
that fat rat bastard.

ARLO
(off) And he swore, he swore once I got a 
degree...

ARLO
...there'd be a sales rep desk with my 
name on it.  But every time something 
opened up, there'd be some idiot 
cousin...

ARLO
(off) ...or nephew or some good old 
boy...

ARLO
...just ready to just slide him right in 
there.  And what about me, huh?  What 
about Arlo, huh?  What about my needs?  
You know, I got a-I got student loans...

ARLO
(off) ...overdrawn bank accounts.

ARLO
Nobody's lookin' out for my interests. 
(grunts) My credit was fucked!  And then 
when he promoted Sam over me, I just 
snapped.  So I split.

MASON
So you took his...

MASON
(off) ...truck.

ARLO
So I took his truck, yeah.

MASON
(off) (overlapping) Yeah.

ARLO
You know.

SCENE
  EXT. ROAD - DAY.


BRYNNER
(face off) This river ends at a hydro 
dam...

BRYNNER
...in Missoula.  All we need to do is get 
to Mason before anyone else does.

BRYNNER
Carl, Dennis, get out of sight.

BRYNNER
Officer Pappas, I'm glad you're here.

PAPPAS
Mind if you tell me what's goin' on?

BRYNNER
I'm Colonel Brynner, U.S. Special 
Operations Com-...

BRYNNER
...-mand out of Fort Bragg.

BRYNNER
(off) We were called in by the Jerome 
base...

BRYNNER
...to pursue a man who's stolen 
government proper-...

BRYNNER
...-ty.

PAPPAS
Right.  Tim Mason.

BRYNNER
You know the suspect?

PAPPAS
Yeah, he's wanted in connection with a 
death this morning at the Jerome...

PAPPAS
...general store.

BRYNNER
Richard Long.

PAPPAS
That's right.

BRYNNER
Long went missing from the Tech Center 
this morning along with a very 
dangerous...

BRYNNER
...weapon.  Deputy, I'd deeply appreciate 
your assistance on this.

BRYNNER
Who knows?  It might even put some more 
gold on that collar of yours.

SCENE
  EXT. ROWBOAT - DAY.


MASON
You know, four years ago, I was a split 
end at Kentucky State.

MASON
(face off) We were nationally (off) 
ranked.

ARLO
How wonderful for you.

MASON
Started every game my senior year.  Not 
all-American or anything, but not bad.  
Anyway, the real star was my best friend, 
the quarterback.  Got taken in the first 
round.

ARLO
Robert Del Rio?

MASON
Yeah, Robert Del Rio.

ARLO
I remember him.  Got in a car crash or 
somethin'.

MASON
We were celebrating right after the 
draft, going from bar to bar.  I was 
drivin'.

MASON
And I put the car into a ditch.  He spent 
eighteen weeks in the...

MASON
(off) ...hospital.

MASON
Never gonna throw a ball in the pros.

MASON
(sighs) Couldn't deal with it.  So I 
split.

MASON
(face off) And (off) things sort of just 
went downhill from there.

MASON
Anyway, about ten months ago, I wound up 
in Jerome, workin' for Darlene.

ARLO
Well, shit.  Could be worse.  I mean, 
we're both up shit's creek, but at least 
we have a paddle.

MASON
We got two paddles.

ARLO
(chuckles)

SCENE
  EXT. U.S. RESEARCH LABORATORY - DAY.


VITELLI
Is the facility secure?

SERGEANT
Yes, sir, colonel.  There's four dead, 
but the security video's clean.

VITELLI
It's a patched-in feed.  It's probably a 
loop.

VITELLI
(sighs) Deputy.

VITELLI
Deputy, I'm Colonel Vitelli.  I'm on 
special as-...

VITELLI
...-signment.

LEWIS
Deputy Art Lewis, Jerome County Sheriff's 
Department.

VITELLI
(overlapping) Uh-huh.

LEWIS
I don't suppose you'd like to tell me 
what this is all about.

VITELLI
I will tell you what I...

VITELLI
...can, deputy.

BIG RANGER
(overlapping) Colonel Vitelli.  We got a 
busted-in cold vault inside.

VITELLI
Is it--?

BIG RANGER
(off) Looks like it.  Yes, sir.

VITELLI
Alert seventy-fifth rangers.  Code Blue.  
Tell them Elvis has left the building.

LEWIS
What the hell are you talkin' about...

LEWIS
...colonel?

VITELLI
Have you I.D.'d the bodies?

BIG RANGER
They were all wearing hardware.

VITELLI
Any of them Richard Long?

BIG RANGER
No, sir.

LEWIS
Well, I've got Dr. Long's body down at 
the coroner's office.

LEWIS
One of our units is pursuing a suspect up 
the thirty-...

LEWIS
...-five.

VITELLI
Who's your suspect?

LEWIS
A man named Tim Ma-...

LEWIS
...-son.

VITELLI
Run a check.  FBI, Interpol.

BIG RANGER
Yes, sir.

VITELLI
If you're right, Lewis, this Mason is one 
hell of a pro.  He must have a service 
record and a paper trail some-...

VITELLI
...-where.

LEWIS
Mason? (chuckling) No, he's a soda-jerk 
drifter, a hamburger flipper.

VITELLI
It could be a cover, I suppose.

VITELLI
Whoever did this is a man who knows his 
business.

SCENE
  EXT. ROWBOAT - DAY.


MASON
Listen, Arlo...

MASON
...for whatever it's worth, I'm sorry I 
dragged you into this...

MASON
(off) ...shit.

ARLO
To tell you the truth, you didn't.

ARLO
(off) Not completely, anyway.

ARLO
I mean, if that gun was...

ARLO
...loaded, I didn't buy you as a shoot-
...

ARLO
(off) ...-er.  It was your friend...

ARLO
...Long.  Somethin' about that look in 
his eye when he talked about that 
Elvis...

ARLO
(off) ...shit.

MASON
Well, all the same.  If we get to 
Missoula, help me find a car.  I'd 
appreciate it.  Then...you can...

MASON
(off) ...split.

ARLO
Split?  I wouldn't get ten...

ARLO
(off) ...miles.

MASON
(chuckles)

ARLO
Like I said, I got a pretty good idea of 
what's at stake here.

ARLO
(off) We need to finish this, Night 
Shift.

ARLO
Hang on to your ass, Missoula!

ARLO
Arlo's back...and he's bringin' the King.

SCENE
  EXT. RIVER - DAY.


MASON
(off) (yells - continues under following 
dialogue)

ARLO
(off) That is loud!  I'm (continues 
indistinct)

MASON
(off) (overlapping) Whoo!

ARLO
(off) Yeah, baby!

MASON & ARLO
(off) (in unison) Whoo!

SCENE
  INT. ANDY'S CAR - MISSOULA - DAY.


ARLO
Damn.

SCENE
  INT. ANDY'S ICE CREAM FACTORY/STAIRWELL 
- DAY.


ARLO
(sighs)

SCENE
  INT. ANDY'S ICE CREAM FACTORY/ANDY'S 
OFFICE - DAY.


NARRATIVE TITLE
Andy's

NARRATIVE TITLE
CANCELLED

ICE CREAM ANDY
(off) Hey, Arlo.

ARLO
(sighs) Well, that just about figures for 
today.

ICE CREAM ANDY
So...where's my truck?

ARLO
It's, uh, parked just off of Highway 
Thirty-Five.

ICE CREAM ANDY
I did what I could for you...

ICE CREAM ANDY
(off) ...Arlo, and you screwed me for it.  
Now, where's my goddamn truck?

ARLO
I ain't got time to argue with you today, 
Andy.  But I can tell you this.  Takin' 
your truck pissed you off?

ARLO
(off) Huh?

ARLO
You're gonna (chuckling) be real mad when 
I take the pickup.

BRYNNER
(blows)

BRYNNER
(growls) And so Missoula's prodigal son 
returns.

SCENE
  INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY.


MASON
(into telephone) Hello.

BRYNNER
(over telephone) I got someone who's 
anxious to talk to you, Mr. Mason.

SCENE
  INT. ANDY'S ICE CREAM FACTORY/ANDY'S 
OFFICE - DAY.


BRYNNER
I urge you to be persuasive.

BRYNNER
This country trained me to kill...

BRYNNER
(off) ...without compunction.

ARLO
Well, well, well.

ARLO
(off) Funny situation, ain't it, Andy?

BRYNNER
Three seconds.  One...

ICE CREAM ANDY
You've gotta help me, Ar-...

ICE CREAM ANDY
(off) ...-lo.

BRYNNER
...two.

ARLO
Why don't you get that tub of shit Sam 
to...

ARLO
(off) ...help you?

ICE CREAM ANDY
(overlapping) (pants) Look, I'm sorry.  
I'll make it up to you.  Whatever you 
want.  Please!

BRYNNER
Gentlemen, I have never been known for 
my...

BRYNNER
(face off) ...patience.

ICE CREAM ANDY
(pants) Arlo!

SCENE
  INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY.


MASON
(into telephone) Arlo.

SCENE
  INT. ANDY'S ICE CREAM FACTORY/ANDY'S 
OFFICE - DAY. (INTERCUT WITH
  INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY)


ARLO
All right, all right.  Hey, hey.

ARLO
Hey. (into telephone) (to Mason) Mason.

MASON
(into telephone) Yeah.

ARLO
(over telephone) I think you oughta cut 
a...

ARLO
(over telephone) ...deal with this 
asshole.

ARLO
(over telephone) Even though it is nice 
to see Andy...

ARLO
(off) (into telephone) ...squirm, I don't 
want his brains all over my shirt...

ARLO
(over telephone) ...or my conscience.

ARLO
(into telephone) A-And you  owe me...

ARLO
(over telephone) ...man.

MASON
(into telephone) Yeah, I know, I know.

MALE STORE


EMPLOYEE
(overlapping) (grunts)

BRYNNER
(into telephone) You still there, Mr. 
Mason?

MASON
(into telephone) Yeah, I'm listenin'.

BRYNNER
(over telephone) Then meet me at the dam 
in fifteen minutes.

BRYNNER
(into telephone) And be intelligent about 
this.  Tricks will cost lives.

SCENE
  INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY.


LONG
(voice over) Create a piece of bait 
that...

LONG
(voice over) ...sends the fish's 
instincts into overdrive...

LONG
(voice over) ...forcing him to strike.

STORE OWNER
Everything all right...

STORE OWNER
(off) ...son?

MASON
Yeah, I just....

MASON
(off) Tryin' to remember somethin' 
somebody once told me about tyin' a fly.

LONG
(voice over) And only then does our noble 
friend realize...

LONG
(voice over) ...that the prey can bite 
back.

MASON
Let me have those.

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.


DENNIS
Sir... (grunting) I think you should take 
a look at this.  Judging...

DENNIS
...by the signature pulse and 
velocity...helicopters.  Maybe fifteen 
minutes.

CARL
Rangers.  That was only a matter of time.

BRYNNER
Of which we have more than enough.

SCENE
  INT. HELICOPTER - DAY.


GOMEZ
All right, listen up!

GOMEZ
(off) Stay sharp!

NARRATIVE TITLE
TOP







GOMEZ
(face off) Now, this is the guy we're 
lookin' for! (off) His name is Tim Mason!

GOMEZ
(off) And he's got the acrylic container!

HARDNOSE
Do we know what's inside?!

GOMEZ
You don't need to know!  Let's just get 
it back, all right?!

SCENE
  EXT. CARNIVAL - DAY.


PEOPLE AT CARNIVAL
(off) (low and indistinct chatter - 
continues under following scenes)

SCENE
  EXT. DAM - DAY.


BRYNNER
I don't see my container.

MASON
You try anything, it goes in...

MASON
(off) ...the river.

BRYNNER
It's a little late for matinee heroics, 
Mason.  Just give me the con-...

BRYNNER
(off) ...-tainer!

MASON
Where's Arlo?

BRYNNER
Bring him up.

ARLO
(low and indistinct) (pants) (indistinct)

MASON
Bring him down!

BRYNNER
(low and indistinct)

ARLO
(pants)

MASON
(pants - continues under following scene)

BRYNNER
Your fellow hero, untouched...

BRYNNER
...and unharmed, de-...

BRYNNER
...-spite the mouth.

MASON
Him first.

ARLO
(pants)

MASON
(panting) You all right?

MASON
(pants - continues under following scene)

MASON
Run!

MASON & ARLO
(pant - continues under following scene)

VAUGHN
Down! (continues under following scene)

MASON
(face off) (grunts)

MASON
(face off) (grunts)

MASON
(grunts)

BRYNNER
(grunts) (pants)

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.


DENNIS
(off) Rangers.

DENNIS
Go.

SCENE
  EXT. DAM - DAY.


MASON
(off) (grunts)

BRYNNER
(off) (pants - continues under following 
scene)

BRYNNER
You should've taken the money.

ARLO
Bullshit.  You would've killed us anyway.

MASON
(overlapping) (grunts)

VAUGHN
(off) Shit.

BRYNNER
Just when we have all the cards, Vaughn. 
(chuckles) Take these two behind the van.

VAUGHN
Move!

MASON
(grunts)

VAUGHN
(face off) Move!

MASON
(grunts)

SCENE
  INT. HELICOPTER - DAY.


GOMEZ
I got the container!  Bring it in...

GOMEZ
(off) ...hot!

PILOT
That's not Mason.

GOMEZ
Doesn't matter who he is!  We're goin'...

GOMEZ
(off) ...in!

SCENE
  EXT. DAM - DAY.


MASON
Ow! (face off) (grunt)

ARLO
(grunts)

MASON
(grunts)

ARLO
Are you all right?

MASON
(panting) No. (pants)

PATROL CAP
(low and indistinct)

BRYNNER
(off) That's far enough, gentlemen!

BRYNNER
Do you know who I am?

GOMEZ
Gas masks.

BRYNNER
Gas masks?  Gas masks?  The men on Horn 
Island had gas...

BRYNNER
(off) ...masks!

PATROL CAP
Where the fuck is Horn Island?

BRYNNER
Was!  Horn Island was!

MASON
(panting) Listen, Arlo.

MASON
(grunts - continues under following 
scene)

ARLO
Hey!

VAUGHN
Shut your mouth.

MASON
(face off) (grunts) (pants)

BRYNNER
Do you know what'll...

BRYNNER
(off) ...happen if I drop this?

VITELLI
Brynner.

BRYNNER
Well, Lieutenant Vitelli.

BRYNNER
(off) Good to see you again, Leo.

BRYNNER
Pleasant surprise.

VITELLI
I can't say it's a surprise.

VITELLI
And I certainly can't say it's pleasant.

VITELLI
As soon as I heard Elvis was on the 
loose, you came to mind.

VITELLI
I checked your release date.  I never 
liked coincidences.

BRYNNER
And I don't like deviations from plans, 
Leo, as I'm sure you re-...

BRYNNER
(off) ...-member.

GOMEZ
Colonel, sir, who the hell is this guy?

VITELLI
He was Major Andrew Bryn-...

VITELLI
(off) ...-ner.  We did two tours together 
in Vietnam.

VITELLI
Until he got busted down to nursemaiding 
scientists.

BRYNNER
Yeah, I had a small problem with members 
of our side murdering civil-...

BRYNNER
(off) ...-ians.  But I assure you, Leo...

BRYNNER
...I lost all my squeamishness at Leav-
...

BRYNNER
(off) ...-enworth.  I'll have no 
compunction at all about using this.

BRYNNER
Hm.  The wind's northwest.  That oughta 
be...Seattle.

BRYNNER
(off) Or I may be wrong.  The breeze 
could be gusting south.  That'd be 
Billings...

BRYNNER
...maybe even Salt Lake, not to mention 
Casper...

BRYNNER
(off) ...Destry, Fair Oaks....

VITELLI
Knowing you, Brynner, you've got buyers 
waiting to buy! You're not gonna use 
that...

VITELLI
(off) ...here!

BRYNNER
And I'm warning you, Leo.  Don't test me.  
Get your men and your machines off my 
radar screen in five, or three million 
people will die.

BRYNNER
(off) I'll do it.

VITELLI
Tell the choppers we're lifting off!

GOMEZ
Excuse me, sir?!

BRYNNER
Your colonel's giving you a wise order, 
soldier.

VITELLI
It's not over, Brynner.

GOMEZ
Sir, we can't just let him get away with 
this!

VITELLI
(overlapping) Gomez, you fight the 
battles you can win.  Now, we've been 
outmaneuvered here.  Brynner's next move 
is gonna be to get Elvis out of the 
country and sell him to the highest 
bidder.  To do that, he has to have 
planned an exit point.  That's where we 
intercept him.  That's where we make our 
play.  Now you and your men back off.

GOMEZ
All right, let's move...

GOMEZ
(off) ...out!

ARLO
They're takin' off.

MASON
(grunting) Huh?

ARLO
They're movin'.

MASON
(grunts)

MASON
(grunts)

BRYNNER
Dennis!

BRYNNER
Get your links set up!

BRYNNER
I wanna patch in from...

BRYNNER
...here!

VAUGHN
What about these two?

BRYNNER
(off) We're gonna use them for 
demonstration (on) footage.

BRYNNER
Having witnessed the effects myself, I 
can assure you it'll be very useful when 
the bidding starts.

BRYNNER
(face off) Get 'em in the (off) middle of 
the dam.

VAUGHN
Sir.

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.


VAUGHN
(off) Up!

DENNIS
(off) Taipei is on-line.

DENNIS
Geneva's comin' up, and we should have 
Karachi and Kabul in a cou-...

DENNIS
(off) ...-ple of minutes.

BRYNNER
All right.  Tell the pilot we'll be a 
half-hour.

SCENE
  EXT. DAM - DAY.


BRYNNER
(off) Carl!  Set up the camera.

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.


BRYNNER
Dennis, we will open the bidding at one 
hundred million...

BRYNNER
(off) ...dollars.

DENNIS
(chuckles)

SCENE
  EXT. DAM - DAY.


MASON
(pants and grunts)

BRYNNER
(grunts) It won't be long, gentlemen.

ARLO
(off) (pants - continues under following 
scene)

BRYNNER
And it won't be pleasant. (grunts)

BRYNNER
(face off) But...

BRYNNER
...such is the price...of patriotism.

BRYNNER
Vaughn.

ARLO
(panting) Hey!

ARLO
Hey!

MASON
Hey, just shut up.

ARLO
We're gonna die!

MASON
(overlapping) Arlo, shut up.

ARLO
(pants - continues under following scene)

DENNIS
Everybody's linked...

DENNIS
(face off) ...up.

BRYNNER
All right.  Clear the area.

ARLO
We're gonna die!

ARLO
(off) We're gonna die!

MASON
Hey, hey, hey.

ARLO
(face off) (pants - continues under 
following scene and dialogue)

MASON
Put your hand in my pants.

ARLO
What?

MASON
(sighs)

ARLO
(face off) We're gonna die, and you want 
me to do some freaky shit like that?!

MASON
(overlapping) Arlo!  Arlo.

MASON
Reach into my pocket.

ARLO
(pants)

MASON
(off) (panting) Come on!

ARLO
Oh.

ARLO
(face off) (whispering) Okay.

MASON
Yeah.

ARLO
(face off) (panting) Okay.

MASON
(grunts)

ARLO
(panting) Okay.  All right, man.  Okay.

ARLO
(grunts)

MASON
(panting) Okay. (continues indistinct)

ARLO
(off) (panting) All right.  Okay.

MASON
(grunts)

ARLO
Okay. (grunts)

MASON
(sighs)

MASON
Arlo!

MASON
(pants)

ARLO
(face off) (grunts) I'm sorry.  I'm a 
little (continues indistinct)

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.


VAUGHN
I'm on it.

BRYNNER
Stay put. (to Dennis) Keep the camera 
trained on...

BRYNNER
(off) ...them.  Bound or loose...

BRYNNER
..their deaths will be equally effective 
and inevitable.

DENNIS
Sir, I got Taipei grindin' on me here.  
How long is this supposed to ta--?

SCENE
  EXT. DAM - DAY.


MASON
(grunts - continues under following 
dialogue)

ARLO
(pants)

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.


DENNIS
Geneva just pulled the plug.

DENNIS
(off) Kabula's out.

SCENE
  EXT. DAM - DAY.


ARLO
(panting) Okay. (pants - continues under 
following dialogue)

MASON
(grunts - continues under following 
dialogue)

ARLO
Come on, come on!

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.


DENNIS
Pakistan says they'll be back tomorrow.

DENNIS
(off) And Taipei just went off-line, sir.

BRYNNER
Go.

SCENE
  EXT. DAM - DAY.


ARLO
Okay, here we go.

MASON
(overlapping) (grunts)

ARLO
Come here.

MASON
(grunts) Go, go, go! (pants)

ARLO
(grunts)

SCENE
  INT.  POSTAL VAN - DAY.


ARLO
You just can't leave that stuff with that 
lu-...

MASON
(off) (grunts)

ARLO
(off) ...-natic.

MASON
(overlapping) (pants) That's why I didn't 
give it...

MASON
(off) ...to him. (pants - continues 
indistinct under following scene and 
dialogue)

ARLO
What?

ARLO
(off) You got Elvis?!

MASON
(panting) Sometimes the prey bites back.

MASON
(off) Go!

ARLO
(pants - continues under following scene)

MASON
(face off) Stop.

MASON
(grunts)

ARLO
Hang...

ARLO
(face off) ...on!

MASON
(grunts)

NARRATIVE TITLE
Pacific             







ARLO
(pants) Whoo!

LABORATORY
  START MEASURING 0.00 AT START MARK


CHARACTER
FOOTAGEDIALOGUE

SCENE
  INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY.


MASON
Aw, shit.  Would you be more care-...

MASON
(off) ...-ful?!

ARLO
(panting) Okay.  Okay.

SCENE
  EXT. DAM - DAY.


BRYNNER
(face off) Positions. (on) We're taking 
up the hunt.

DENNIS
(panting) Come on, Brynner, it's over.  
Nobody said anything about goin' up 
against Rangers.

CARL
Besides, how are we gonna sell something 
we don't have?

BRYNNER
Nothing has changed, I assure you both.  
The Army still thinks we got Elvis.  They 
had a tactical withdrawal.  It's just 
those two amateurs now.  Do you really 
want to concede a hundred million dollars 
to them?

SCENE
  INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY.


ARLO
(pants)

SCENE
  EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY.


NARRATIVE TITLE
Ft. McGruder        90

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.


BRYNNER
(into radio) Carl, establish contact with 
that deputy we met earlier.  He'll be 
more useful now.

SCENE
  INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY.


NARRATIVE TITLE
TEMPERATURE

MASON
(face off) (sighs)

MASON
(face off) (grunts - continues under 
following scenes)

MASON
We need more ice!

ARLO
All right, there's a service station on 
the other end of the Northridge Tunnel!  
They'll have ice!

NARRATIVE TITLE
TEMPERATURE

MASON
(off) Oh, fuck!

MASON
Forty-five seven!

ARLO
Oh, shit.

MASON
(off) Okay.

MASON
Come on, come on, come on.

MASON
(pants)

SCENE
  EXT. MEADOW - DAY.


VITELLI
(indistinct)

GOMEZ
What's going on, colonel?

VITELLI
Here's what I want you to do.

LIEUTENANT
The Ranger units in McGruder've...

LIEUTENANT
...got the local airports covered, sir.  
Pentagon's covering the interna-...

LIEUTENANT
...-tional traffic.

VITELLI
Good. (to Gomez) Gomez, I want two birds 
back to Missoula.  I wanna...

VITELLI
...rendezvous here, approach from the 
southwest.

GOMEZ
Yes, sir. (grunts)

GOMEZ
Go.

VITELLI'S HELICOPTER


PILOT
Colonel, you've got a Tim Mason, patched 
through from McGruder.

VITELLI
(into telephone) This is Vitelli.  Is 
that...

SCENE
  INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY.


VITELLI
(over telephone) ...you, Mason?

MASON
(into telephone) Yeah, yeah...

MASON
(off) (into telephone) ...yeah!  Colonel!

MASON
(into telephone) Listen, I've got Elvis!

ARLO
We!

MASON
(off) (overlapping) (into telephone) I've 
got the real thing!

ARLO
(overlapping) We've got Elvis!

SCENE
  EXT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY. 
(INTERCUT WITH
  INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY)


VITELLI
(into telephone) What?  Say again, Ma-...

VITELLI
(over telephone) ...-son.

MASON
(into telephone) What we gave Brynner on 
the dam was a phony!

MASON
(over telephone) We've got the real 
thing!

VITELLI
(into telephone) Where are you now...

VITELLI
(over telephone) ...Mason?

MASON
(into telephone) I'm at mile marker...

MASON
(into telephone) ...sixty-two...

MASON
(over telephone) ...heading west on...

MASON
(off) (into telephone) ...thirty-five!

ARLO
(off) Here...

ARLO
...they come!

MASON
(into telephone) And Brynner's right 
on...

MASON
(over telephone) ...our ass!

ARLO
He's comin' up fast!

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.


BRYNNER
Hit him.

SCENE
  INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY


ARLO
(grunts) Shit!

SCENE
  INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.


BRYNNER
Hit him again.

SCENE
  INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY.


MASON & ARLO
(grunt)

SCENE
  EXT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


VITELLI
(off) (into radio) We've gotta take out 
Brynner's van before (on) they reach...

SCENE
  INT. GOMEZ'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


VITELLI
(off) (over radio) ...that tunnel.

GOMEZ
Get ready to take it out!

SCENE
  INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY.


ARLO
(off) Okay...

ARLO
...here comes the...

ARLO
(off) ...tunnel!

MASON
(panting) Tunnel.

SCENE
  INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


VITELLI
(into radio) Do it now.

SCENE
  INT. GOMEZ'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


GOMEZ
Hit it...

GOMEZ
(off) ...now!

SCENE
  INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY.


MASON & ARLO
(off) (yell and cheer - continues under 
following scene and dialogue)

ARLO
(laughs)

MASON
Whoo!

ARLO
(overlapping) Whoo!

SCENE
  EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY.


VITELLI
(voice over) Uh, so head for the other 
end of the tunnel.

SCENE
  INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


VITELLI
(into radio) I'll stay here and secure 
this position.

SCENE
  INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY.


MASON
Forty-seven.  You'd better floor it.

ARLO
What do you think I'm doin'?!

SCENE
  INT. TUNNEL - DAY.


ARLO
(off) It's a damn postal truck!

SCENE
  INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY.


MASON
What the hell?

ARLO
What the--?

MASON
You've gotta be...

MASON
(off) ...kiddin' me.

SCENE
  INT. TUNNEL - DAY.


ARLO
(off) Stupid.

MASON
I'm gonna kill him.

PAPPAS
Let me see your...

PAPPAS
(off) ...hands!

MASON
(grunts) (panting) Pappas!  Move the car!

MASON
(off) Move the car, please!

ARLO
Unbe-fucking-lievable.

MASON
(off) (overlapping) (pants)

PAPPAS
I said let me see your hands now!

MASON
You redneck idiot, do you have...

MASON
...any idea what's goin' on here?!

PAPPAS
Yeah, asshole.  I'm puttin' a murder 
suspect and a guy who...

PAPPAS
(off) ...stole a truck under arrest.

MASON
(off) (pants - continues under following 
dialogue)

PAPPAS
(off) Now raise 'em!

ARLO
Let me put it in easy terms, Aristotle.  
We are carrying a damn bomb...

ARLO
(off) ...that is going to explode...

ARLO
...if we don't get out of this tunnel!

SCENE
  INT. GOMEZ'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


GOMEZ
(into radio) No sign of 'em...

SCENE
  INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY. 
(INTERCUT WITH
  INT. TUNNEL - DAY)


GOMEZ
(over radio) ...major.

MASON
(groans) (pants) (into telephone) Yeah?

VITELLI
(into telephone) Mason, what is the 
temperature of Elvis?!

MASON
(into telephone) Forty-seven.

VITELLI
(into telephone) If you're not out of 
there soon, I have got to seal the...

VITELLI
(over telephone) ...tunnel!

MASON
God! (panting) They're gonna seal it.

ARLO
Well, why don't they talk to the sage of 
Jerome here?!

PAPPAS
What the hell's a sage?

MASON
(off) (panting) Listen, Pappas...

MASON
...there's a colonel...

MASON
(off) ...on the other end of this phone.

MASON
His name's Vitelli.  Talk to him.  He's 
right out-...

MASON
(off) ...side!

PAPPAS
What happened to Colonel Brynner?

MASON
(sighs) (pants - continues under 
following scene and dialogue)

ARLO
Listen, deputy.

ARLO
(off) He's the dude...

ARLO
...the guy the Army guys are lookin' for!

PAPPAS
Bullshit. (to Mason) Put the phone down, 
Mason.

PAPPAS
(off) I've heard enough of both of ya.

MASON
(overlapping) (panting) Wait.  Listen to 
me, Pappas.  If you don't let us by...

MASON
(off) ...we're all gonna die in this...

MASON
(off) ...tunnel now!

MASON
(panting) Just go check the temperature.

PAPPAS
Don't move!

MASON
(off) (pants - continues under following 
dialogue)

ARLO
Shoot me. (grunts)

MASON
(off) (panting) What's it say? (pants - 
continues under following scenes and 
dialogue)

ARLO
Forty-nine point four.

MASON
(pants) (into telephone) It says forty-
nine.

SCENE
  INT. GOMEZ'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


GOMEZ
(into radio) Forty-nine?

SCENE
  INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


GOMEZ
(over radio) Major, we've gotta seal that 
tunnel!  Major!

SCENE
  INT. TUNNEL - DAY.


ARLO
Mason.

MASON
(panting) What?

ARLO
It's melting, man.

NARRATIVE TITLE
TEMPERATURE

MASON
(face off) (pants) (sighing) Oh...

MASON
...shit. (low and indistinct)

VITELLI
(over telephone) Mason.  Mason!

MASON
(into telephone) Yeah.

SCENE
  INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


VITELLI
(into radio) It's too late, Mason.  
I've...

SCENE
  INT. TUNNEL - DAY.


VITELLI
(over telephone) ...gotta seal it.

SCENE
  INT. GOMEZ'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


GOMEZ
Great. (to Pilot) All right...

GOMEZ
(off) ...we're gonna seal that tunnel!  I 
want it air-...

GOMEZ
(off) ...tight!

SCENE
  INT. TUNNEL - DAY.


PAPPAS
What the hell was that?

MASON
The Army, sealin' us in.

PAPPAS
Jesus.

FAT MAN IN TUNNEL
What the hell is goin'...

FAT MAN IN TUNNEL
(off) ...on?

MASON
(panting) All I had to do was get it...

MASON
(off) (panting) ...on ice. (on) And now 
it's over!

MASON
Kiss your ass goodbye...

MASON
...Pappas!

FAT MAN IN TUNNEL
Ice?  You want ice?  I got a whole case 
of beer...

FAT MAN IN TUNNEL
(off) ...back here in the car, floatin' 
in the stuff.

MASON
(overlapping) You're kiddin' me.

ARLO
(grunts)

MASON
(face off) (grunts)

SCENE
  INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY. 
(INTERCUT WITH
  INT. TUNNEL - DAY)


VITELLI
(off) Nail it...

VITELLI
(off) ...up.

VITELLI'S HELICOPTER


PILOT
Okay.

ARLO
(over telephone) (indistinct)

ARLO
(into telephone) We've got ice!

VITELLI
(into telephone) What?  Say again...

VITELLI
(off) (over telephone) ...Mason.  I can 
barely hear you.

ARLO
(into telephone) We've got it...

ARLO
(over telephone) ...on ice!  We've got 
Elvis on ice!

VITELLI
Hold it!

FAT MAN IN TUNNEL
(grunts)

FAT MAN IN TUNNEL
(grunts)

MASON
(whispering) Okay.

ARLO
All right (continues indistinct)

MASON
(pants - continues under following scenes 
and dialogue)

NARRATIVE TITLE
TEMPERATURE

ARLO
(off) (grunts)

ARLO
We're too late. (pants)

MASON
Oh.

ARLO
(overlapping) (grunts)

MASON
Come on.  Come on.

ARLO
(pants) (low and indistinct) (pants)

NARRATIVE TITLE
TEMPERATURE

MASON
(pants - continues under following scene)

MASON
(off) It's workin'.

ARLO
What?

MASON
(off) (overlapping) (pants - continues 
under following scene and dialogue)

ARLO
What?

MASON
(panting) It's working.

ARLO
(chuckles - continues under following 
scene and dialogue)

MASON
(chuckles)

ARLO
(kisses)

MASON
(pants) We got-...

MASON
...-ta get outta here!

ARLO
(into telephone) (overlapping) Vitelli!  
Vitelli!

MASON
(overlapping) (grunts)

ARLO
(into telephone) Can we get out on your 
end of the tunnel?

SCENE
  EXT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


VITELLI
(into telephone) Negative.  Negative.

SCENE
  INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


VITELLI
(off) (into telephone) There's ammo fire 
from Brynner's vehicle.

VITELLI
(into telephone) He must've had a damn 
arsenal in there.

SCENE
  INT. TUNNEL - DAY.


ARLO
(into telephone) Well, hell, the smoke's 
gonna kill us anyway!

MASON
(overlapping) (grunts) There's gotta 
be...

MASON
(off) ...another way (face off) outta 
here. (on) (grunts) (pants) Hey.

ARLO
Hold this. (pants - continues under 
following dialogue)

MASON
Yeah, yeah, yeah.

ARLO
(grunts and pants - continues under 
following scenes)

ARLO
Sorry.

MASON
(off) (pants - continues under following 
scene)

MASON
(into telephone) I think I found a way 
out.

SCENE
  INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


MASON
(over telephone) There's a vent shaft 
leading straight up.

VITELLI
(into telephone) Okay, I'll have a 
chopper meet you at the top.

SCENE
  INT. TUNNEL - DAY.


MASON
(off) (into telephone) (panting) All 
right.

PAPPAS
I'll lead 'em out.

MASON
(off) (overlapping) (pants - continues 
under following scene)

MASON
(panting) You sure?

PAPPAS
Yeah, I'm sure.

MASON
(off) All right, go.

PAPPAS
Fol-...

PAPPAS
(face off) ...-low me.  Come on, let's 
go!

PAPPAS
(grunts)

ARLO
(face off) Hang on, hang on.

MASON
Let's go!

ARLO
(off) Go.

MAN #2 IN TUNNEL
(face off) (grunts)

PEOPLE IN TUNNEL
(pant - continues under following scenes 
and dialogue)

ARLO
Got it? (grunts) (to woman in tunnel) 
Come on, darlin'. (grunting) I gotcha.

MASON
(panting) Arlo, I'm gonna get Elvis.  You 
go.

MASON
(off) They'll meet you at the top.

ARLO
Okay. (to Fat Man in Tunnel) Come on, big 
guy!

MASON
(pants - continues under following 
scenes)

MASON
(grunts and coughs - continues under 
following scenes)

SCENE
  INT. TUNNEL/AIR VENT - DAY.


ARLO
Come on, Night Shift.

SCENE
  INT. TUNNEL - DAY.


MASON
(face off) (grunts) (pants)

MASON
(grunts)

MASON
(coughs)

MASON
(grunts)

MASON
(pants) (grunts)

MASON
(grunts and pants)

MASON
(yells - continues under following scene)

MASON
(grunts and pants - continues under 
following scenes and dialogue)

BRYNNER
(panting) No.

BRYNNER
Where's Elvis?!

MASON
(panting) Dead, last time I...

MASON
(off) (panting) ...checked. (grunts and 
pants - continues under following scenes)

MASON
(groans - continues under following 
dialogue)

BRYNNER
(pants - continues under following scene)

BRYNNER
Kill him now.

VAUGHN
(off) Oh, don't worry.

VAUGHN
I'm a professional.  This won't hurt...

VAUGHN
(face off) ...a bit.

MASON
(overlapping) (pants) Well, I'm an 
amateur. (grunts - continues under 
following scene)

MASON
And this is...

MASON
(face off) ...gonna hurt like hell.

MASON
(grunts)

BRYNNER
(grunts)

MASON
(grunts)

BRYNNER
(grunts)

BRYNNER
(off) (groans - continues under following 
scene and dialogue)

MASON
(grunts)

MASON
(grunts - continues under following 
scene)

BRYNNER
(grunts)

MASON & BRYNNER
(grunt)

BRYNNER
(pants)

MASON
(grunts) (pants)

MASON
(grunts)

MASON
(grunts)

SCENE
  INT. TUNNEL/AIR VENT - DAY.


PAPPAS
(grunts)

SCENE
  EXT. MOUNTAINTOP - DAY.


PAPPAS
(grunts)

PAPPAS
Come on out, son.  All right.  There ya 
go.

PAPPAS
Come on, son. (continues indistinct to) 
there ya go.

PATROL CAP
All right, (continues indistinct)

SCENE
  INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


VITELLI
(into radio) Is Elvis out?

GOMEZ
(over radio) Negative.  Negative.

SCENE
  INT. TUNNEL - DAY.


MASON
(grunts and pants)

MASON & BRYNNER
(grunt)

MASON & BRYNNER
(pant)

MASON & BRYNNER
(grunt - continues under following 
scenes)

BRYNNER
Why?  You're a nothing, nobody!  Why?

MASON
You'd never understand!

BRYNNER
I would've in another life.

MASON
(pants - continues under following 
dialogue)

BRYNNER
They took that life away and left me with 
nothing.

BRYNNER
But now I have it all.

ARLO
(blows)

BRYNNER
(grunts - continues under following 
scene)

BRYNNER
(grunts and pants - continues under 
following scenes)

MASON
(grunts - continues under following 
scene)

ARLO
(grunts) Look out.

MASON
What'd you come back for?!

ARLO
Why'd you stay behind?!

MASON
(grunts - continues under following 
scene)

ARLO
(off) (indistinct)

MASON
(off) (grunts - continues under following 
dialogue)

ARLO
(face off) (grunts)

SCENE
  EXT. TUNNEL - DAY.


ARLO
(grunts)

MASON
Elvis is still in there!  It's gonna go 
off!

MASON
(grunts)

SCENE
  INT. TUNNEL - DAY.


BRYNNER
(grunts) (pants)

SCENE
  INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.


VITELLI
(into radio) Now!  Seal that tunnel now!

SCENE
  INT. TUNNEL - DAY.


BRYNNER
(pants)

SCENE
  EXT. MOUNTAINTOP - DAY.


MALE MEDIC
Do you need some help gettin' in the 
ambulance?

MASON
No, thanks. (grunts)

ARLO
(pants) (whispering) Well.

MASON
(grunts)

ARLO
You know, we saved half a million people 
from a full-body peel.

MASON
(chuckles)

ARLO
We're the shit.  Bigtime.

MASON
They aren't exactly gonna publicize this, 
(chuckling) Arlo. (chuckles)

ARLO
Hey-Hey-Hey-Hey-Hey.  We are heroes, my 
man.  It's time to start actin' like it.

MASON
(grunts)

ARLO
Stop limpin' around like that.

MASON
Excuse me.  I got a bullet in my leg.

ARLO
Always the negative...

ARLO
(off) ...with you.

VITELLI
(overlapping) All right, gentlemen.  
We're about done here.  Fine job.

ARLO
Thank you.

VITELLI
Your country and a lot of innocent people 
in it...

VITELLI
(off) ...owe you.

ARLO
Us.  Owe us. (chuckles)

MASON
You did help a little.

ARLO
Who drove the ice cream...

ARLO
(off) ...truck that kept Elvis cool?

MASON
Who had to put a gun to your head?

ARLO
Who put the big hurt on...

ARLO
(off) ...that Army nut job to save your 
narrow butt?

MASON
You, Arlo.

ARLO
Hello.

MASON
You.

ARLO
Right.  You damn skippy.  And now that I 
am both jobless...

ARLO
(off) ...and-and-and truckless in the 
service of my country...

ARLO
...I feel that my government owes me a 
little restitution.

MASON
(overlapping) Us.  Owes us.

ARLO
I'll handle this from here, sweet 
(continues indistinct to) (to Vitelli) 
Owes us a little restitution.

VITELLI
We do have to take into consideration 
that, through your courage...

VITELLI
(off) ...and selfless actions, you did 
save millions of lives.

ARLO
Exactly.

VITELLI 
However, you are also non-en-...

VITELLI
(off) ...-listed personnel with detailed 
knowledge of classified secrets falling 
under the National Security Act.

VITELLI
In order to protect those secrets, I am 
authorized to fine you, imprison you...

VITELLI
(off) ...to take any extreme measures I 
deem necessary...

VITELLI
...including the permanently extreme.

ARLO
I'd say we're about even.

MASON
Patriotism is its own reward.

ARLO
I think so too.

MASON
(overlapping) (grunts) Yeah.

MASON
Thank you.

ARLO
(off) Thank you very much.

MASON
What about all that "no need to get in 
the man's...

MASON
...face" crap you've been telling me?

ARLO
(overlapping) I was not in the man's 
face.  I was nego-...

ARLO
...-tiatin'.

MASON
(overlapping) Look.  That's negotiating?  
He threatened to kill...

MASON
...us.

ARLO
But he didn't.  See, that's negotiation.

MASON
(overlapping) No.

MASON
That's bullshit.

ARLO
Bullshit, yeah.  Well...if we're not 
gonna be famous, at least this'll be a 
great story to tell some ladies in a bar 
or somethin'.

MASON
(overlapping) Arlo, nobody's gonna 
believe us.

MASON
Nobody-Nobody's even gonna know this 
happened, except for the people that were 
here, the Army, you and me...

MASON
...and--

FEMALE MEDIC #1
(interrupting) You shouldn't be walking 
on that.

ARLO
Hello, somebody.

FEMALE MEDIC #2
Heard you saved a lot of lives.

FEMALE MEDIC #1
The Army said it was a terrorist bomb.

ARLO
Oh!

MASON
Oh, oh!

ARLO
I feel faint.

MASON
(overlapping) Ooh.

MASON, ARLO, FEMALE


MEDIC #1 & FEMALE


MEDIC #2
(overlapping, indistinct chatter and 
exclamations of "Oh!" and "Ooh!" - 
continues under following scene and 
dialogue)

ARLO
Oh.  Oh, you got me?  You got me?

FEMALE MEDIC #2
I gotcha.

MASON
(overlapping) Oh, you got me?

FEMALE MEDIC #1
Yeah, I gotcha.  Hold on.

MASON
(overlapping) (groans - continues under 
following dialogue)

ARLO
You know, it's, uh-it's very hush-hush, 
as we say in the spy game.

MASON
(panting) Yeah.  Yeah, yeah, yeah.

PEOPLE AT


MOUNTAINTOP
(low and indistinct chatter - continues 
under following scenes and dialogue)

MASON
(grunts - continues under following 
dialogue)

ARLO
It all started with our mission in 
Istanbul.

MASON
(overlapping) Yeah.

ARLO
I was undercover as a tennis player.

MASON
(overlapping) Yeah.

ARLO
My code name was Blackjack.  Night Shift 
was my coach.  Uh-Uh-Uh, I'm sorry.  
Mason was my coach.

MASON
(overlapping) (grunts)

ARLO
Uh, he handled rackets, and I carried the 
balls.

MASON
(overlapping) Yeah.

ARLO
(overlapping) (low and indistinct to) you 
see, that was a-that was my mission.

MASON
(overlapping) (indistinct to) big balls.

ARLO
That's right.

MASON, ARLO, FEMALE


MEDIC #1 & FEMALE


MEDIC #2
(overlapping, indistinct chatter and 
grunts - continues under following scene 
and dialogue)

ARLO
Ooh, that's it.  Just grab-Just put your 
arm--  Don't be afraid.

MASON
(overlapping) Oh.

SCENE
  BLACK BACKGROUND.


ARLO
(voice over) You got a nice strong grip 
for a woman.

FEMALE MEDIC #1
(voice over) Oh, thank you.

ARLO
(voice over) Yes, you do.

FEMALE MEDIC #2
(voice over) Ooh, ooh.

ARLO
(voice over) Yeah, and, uh...that's a 
wonderful, wonderful walkie-talkie you 
got there.

MASON
(voice over) (overlapping) Do I have to 
get naked?

FEMALE MEDIC #2
(voice over) (overlapping) You don't have 
to.

MASON
(voice over) I don't have to?

FEMALE MEDIC #2
(chuckling) Are you kidding?

