Come See the Paradise

SCENE 1

MINI
Why are we so early?

LILY
It's good to be early.

MINI
Do you ever worry that you won't recognize him, Mama?

LILY
You recognize me, don't you?  Why shouldn't you recognize him?

MINI
Well, he might have grown a beard or a mustache or something, and 
I was so little...I only think I remember him.  Do you think 
he'll remember me?

LILY
Well, he has all your photographs and all the letters that you 
wrote him.  And he has all your school reports and...

MINI
You sent him my school reports?

LILY
Well, of course I did.  I wanted to let him know how well you're 
doing.  Come on, now.  I've got some tea and some rice cakes 
here.  We'll have a nice talk while we're walking, okay?  Let's 
go.

MINI
How far do we have to go?

LILY
Not far.

MINI
If we have so much time, why are you walking so fast?  I 
shouldn't have worn these new shoes.  I think I have a blister.

LILY
Try not to think about it.  You want to look pretty now, don't 
you?

MINI
Can we talk about Papa?

LILY
Okay.

SCENE 2	Movie theater, Brooklyn, New York, 1936

SCENE 3

JACK
It wasn't what was planned.  It wasn't agreed in committee.

BRENNAN
Smoke bomb.  Fire bomb.  What the fuck's the difference, kid?

JACK
A bunch of people could have gotten killed.  That's the fuckin' 
difference!

BRENNAN
Hey, look kid.  You got the right interests but the wrong 
attitude.

JACK
It wasn't agreed in committee!

BRENNAN
Fuck the committee!  Hey, this is Brooklyn, not Petrograd!  It's 
just another way of negotiating.  All these animals who own the 
theaters...this is all they understand.  Augie, talk to this guy 
for Christ's sakes, will ya?

AUGIE
It's just a different way of doing business, Jack.

JACK
Business my ass!

AUGIE
The result is the same.  You want to unionize these morons you 
gotta kick 'em in the crotch before you even get 'em to the 
table.  Now it's like Mr. Brennan says, whatever way you look at 
it, it's negotiation.

JACK
Oh Augie, don't let him give you that...

BRENNAN
Here's three hundred.  Take a vacation.  Go read some more books, 
sonny boy.  You're outta here.

JACK
What?

BRENNAN
Out!  Bye-bye!  Adios!

AUGIE
That pretty usherette with the doo-da hairdo got a pretty good 
look at you, Jack.  And there ain't too many good looking 
Irishmen with burned hands in Brooklyn.

JACK
Just spit it out, Augie.

AUGIE
Things are different, Jack.  To these guys you're trouble, okay?  
You know every statute on the law books by heart.  But you've got 
principles.  And you got politics.  And that ain't how they want 
to do things right now.  This is a different union and they're 
scared of you.

JACK
What, of these?

AUGIE
Of your mouth, Jack.  Please, take the money.  Else next time you 
might get burned so bad, you won't need bandages.

SCENE 4

REIKO
He says to thank your father for inviting them to perform in 
America.

LILY
Oh.  Yes, Papa's crazy that way.

ACTOR
Why doesn't she speak Japanese?

REIKO
She only speaks Japanese at mealtimes.

ACTOR
Then perhaps I could take her to dinner.

REIKO
He says...

LILY
I know what he said...Tell him it's unlucky to make a pass on the 
stairs, okay?

REIKO
It doesn't translate!  (TO ACTOR):  I guess she just blew you 
away, buster.

PAPA K
This is Harry.  He's an actor in American movies...thinks he's 
Sessue Hayakawa...but all he plays is Chinese houseboys, can you 
imagine?  We've come all this way to be Chinamen?  May I 
introduce my wife?  This is Joyce.  

MAN
She's very pretty.

PAPA K
This is Charlie...and this is LILY.  Charlie is only interested 
in baseball.  LILY has every man in Little Tokyo chasing her.  
But can she find a husband?

LILY
Papa...ssh.  You shouldn't.

PAPA K
Frankie can't even speak Japanese.  Mind you, his English isn't 
too good either.

NISHI-
KAWA
Hiroshi.  Are you going to talk all night when the cards are 
waiting?  And we have to have photos taken.

LILY
Papa, no.  You promised no cards tonight.

PAPA K
American manners, just listen to them.  If I want to play cards, 
I play cards.

DULCIE
LILY, quick!  Come quick!

LILY
What?

DULCIE
Just come!

LILY
It's Mrs. Ogata.  Papa's projectionist's wife!

REIKO
Is he here?

LILY
Sure, he's at the bar.

DULCIE
He's drunk.  He's always drunk.

REIKO
He'll kill her!

SCENE 5

EMCEE
And now, ladies and gentlemen...our very own movie star, who 
Hollywood has discovered but who will always belong to Little 
Tokyo...to sing for us...please welcome Harry Kawamura!

SCENE 6

MARGE
Jack?

JACK
Marge.

MARGE
Jack.  Is it Jack?  Why didn't you tell us you were coming?  
Gerry, look who's here!  

JACK
Hey!

MARGE
It's Jack all the way from New York!  Gerry!  

JACK
Oh no, look at you!

MARGE
Where's your manners?  You can't even get up from the table to 
welcome your own brother?

SCENE 7

MR.
OGATA
You're making a complete fool of yourself!

MRS.
OGATA
No, you are!  And you don't have to shout!

MR.
OGATA
I'll shout as much as I want!

MRS.
OGATA
You're drunk!  I don't want to spend my life married to a drunk!

SCENE 8

JACK
All I'm saying is if you're getting a dollar fifty an hour and 
some guy in a suit is getting ten dollars out of it, then it 
ain't fair.  It's got nothin' to do with communism.

GERRY
It's got everything to do with it!

JACK
Gerry.

GERRY
I tell you, I'm glad to be workin.'

JACK
You don't know what you're talking about.

GERRY
We should all be lucky we're workin.'  Every time I go through 
those gates I look up at that big sign and say God bless you.  
'Cause some poor sucker who ain't got a pot to piss in is out 
there begging for a cup of coffee.  

JACK
Gerry.

GERRY
Jesus, Mary and Joseph!  You people just mess things up for 
everybody!

JACK
Gerry, you're missing my point!  Sure it's good that you're in 
work.  But what I'm sayin' is that someone has got to look out 
for the interests of the working man.

MARGE
You better believe it.  If he could get out of workin' he would, 
the lazy son of a bitch.

GERRY
I work hard.  I work damn hard!

MARGE
If the union people say he don't have to work so hard for the 
same money, he's the first to put his dirty hand up!

GERRY
You don't know what you're talking about.  Your kids aren't 
exactly starving, are they?

MARGE
Only 'cause I work, too, pal.  The money you hand over don't 
exactly pay for no fancy eating.

GERRY
I'm telling you.  If you're going to stay here, you better not go 
causin' any trouble.

JACK
I'm not going to cause any trouble.

GERRY
Because if you're gonna stay here, I ain't gonna stay here under 
the same roof with no red.  Brother or no brother!

JACK
Jesus, I am not a red!  For Christ's sakes Gerry, I'm agreeing 
with you!  I'm gonna get a regular job like everyone else!

GERRY
You never had a regular job!  Look, this is a great country.  
Best country in the world...and if you fucking reds...excuse the 
language...

JACK
It's a great country...I ain't no red.

GERRY
...didn't go agitatin' and causing trouble.  Now you're lucky to 
be living here.  Else you'd be living like a pig in shit pulling 
three dollars a week in Donegal.

JACK
Yeah, well that's why I feel so at home here, Gerry, because when 
it comes to shoveling shit, you're full of it.

MARGE
Shut up, the two of you!

GERRY
Jesus.  No wonder your fucking wife left you.

JACK
She left because she missed Ireland, Marge.  She's happy there.  
It was never gonna work out.  You know that.

MARGE
She left because you spoiled it for her.  You lost your faith in 
everything, Jack.  You were so full of rage she got sick of it 
and stopped dreaming, too.  

JACK
Maybe I shouldn't stay here.  

MARGE
No.  Don't even think of it.  We're glad to have you.  Go talk to 
Gerry.  He means well.

SCENE 9

GERRY
You shouldn't have come here, Jack.  You're my brother and I want 
to help you, but trouble sticks to you like shit to a blanket.  
I'm a content kind of guy, you know?  I'm sick of trouble.

JACK
So am I.  Honest to God, Gerry, all I want is a regular job.

GERRY
You're a politician, Jack.  A sweat shop lawyer and the Chicago 
heavies have closed this town off to any outside union guys.

JACK
I know.  I know.  Don't worry, I'll be gone tomorrow.

GERRY
Where will you go?

JACK
I don't know.  San Francisco, maybe.

GERRY
You don't want to do that.  Maybe I can talk to some people for 
you.

JACK
No, Gerry, no.

GERRY
You see this yard?

JACK
It's a nice yard.

GERRY
You should see it in the daytime.  It's beautiful.  Really 
beautiful.  I got geraniums, I got magnolias, I got sweet peas.  
I got a fountain.  Hey, I'm even thinkin' of putting a pool in 
for the kids.

JACK
A pool would be nice.

GERRY
It's enough for me, Jack.

JACK
It's enough for me, too, Gerry.

SCENE 10

PAPA K
I bring in these Japanese films to play at my theater and they do 
okay.  Good films.  Big Japanese stars.  But young people today, 
all they're interested in is tap dancing.  Fred Gable and Jinji 
Rogers.  

FUJIOKA
Fred Astaire.

NISHI-
KAWA
Kawamura...We're here to talk about money, not tap dancing.

PAPA K
I know.  I'll pay.  I always do.

NISHI-
KAWA
Not soon enough, Hiroshi.  Now, Mr. Fujioka here has offered to 
settle your debts.  

PAPA K
Fujioka?

FUJIOKA
Hiroshi...I've been thinking about remarrying.  

PAPA K
Good idea.  Your wife has been dead long enough.

FUJIOKA
I was thinking of your daughter.

PAPA K
Which daughter?  LILY?

FUJIOKA
Yes, LILY.  A beautiful girl.

CHARLIE
Papa!  Papa!  Excuse me, Mr. Fujioka, Mr. Nishikawa.  Papa, it's 
Mr. Ogata!

PAPA K
Did the projector break again?

CHARLIE
No!  No!  Papa, he's killed himself!  He's killed himself, Papa.  
I just found him.

PAPA K
You're right.  I should be in tomatoes like you, Fujioka.

SCENE 11

JOYCE
Can you imagine killing yourself?

DULCIE
Do you have to?  We're going to eat.

CHARLIE
It's the only thing he could have done.  Why do you have to keep 
talking about it?

LILY
Mr. Fujioka?  But he's old and he's sleazy!  Papa, are you 
serious?

JOYCE
Why did Mr. Ogata have to kill himself?  Why didn't he just kill 
her?

CHARLIE
Because of honor.
DULCIE
Why do you have to kill anyone?  Why can't they just make up?  Or 
why didn't he just leave her?

MAMA K
I knew his wife, Mrs. Fujioka.  Nice woman.  Died too young.  
LILY, he'd make a good husband.

DULCIE
Papa, you smoke too much!

LILY
But he's horrible.  He's ugly.  And he has bad teeth, Mama.  
He's...

DULCIE
Sleazy!

CHARLIE
He's rich.  And Papa owes him money.

LILY
But I don't know him.

PAPA K
That's all right.  All I knew of Mama was a picture.

CHARLIE
Listen to Papa.  

LILY
You're not marrying anyone, I am!

DULCIE
Oh, you like the idea!

LILY
I do not!  I hate the idea!

MAMA K
Just meet with him, for Papa's sake.

CHARLIE
For all our sakes.  We could do with the money.  And we need a 
new projectionist.

MAMA K
Do as your Papa says.  What harm can it do?

PAPA K
You'll meet him.

LILY
But Mama, he's older than Papa!

PAPA K
You'll meet him and that's that!

SCENE 12

MOTHER
Have you ever been to Japan?

LILY
No.  No, I haven't.

MOTHER
Where does your father come from?

LILY
Wakayama, quite near to Osaka.

MOTHER
Ah, is that so?  We have a brother who lives in Osaka.

FUJIOKA
You prefer we speak English?

LILY
It's okay.  I should prefer...I'm sorry.  My Japanese isn't very 
good.

FUJIOKA
My mother doesn't speak English, so...I want you to know...I make 
you a good husband...I give you a good life...I have a good 
business and ah...I want you to know...I can...
LILY
I'm sorry?

FUJIOKA
I give you pretty babies.

SCENE 13

CHARLIE
We have five shows a day, six if the film is short, and it pays 
twenty dollars a week.

JACK
Seven days a week?

CHARLIE
Oh yes.

JACK
Good union hours.

CHARLIE
It's a Japanese custom.  People expect it.  And it's for one 
month.  My cousin in Portland is coming to work here then.

JACK
Sounds good to me.

CHARLIE
First show is eleven o'clock.

JACK
Eleven o'clock, huh?

CHARLIE
Mm hm.

JACK
The last guy sleep here?

CHARLIE
Yeah, he uh, liked to take nap in between shows.

JACK
What happened to him?

CHARLIE
He died.

JACK
Overwork, probably.

CHARLIE
He committed suicide.  He was disgraced.

JACK
What did he do?  Miss a changeover?

CHARLIE
The projectors are very old, so you have to treat them like a 
woman.

JACK
With love?

CHARLIE
No, with patience.

SCENE 14	Jack sings a Japanese song.

SCENE 15

CHARLIE
What did you say to her?

JACK
I don't know.  It's in the third reel of the movie...Hey, who was 
that?

CHARLIE
No one worth knowing.

JACK
Are you kidding?

CHARLIE
She's not your type.

JACK
Oh, she's your girlfriend or something.

CHARLIE
Oh, no, no, no, no.  Just a girl.

JACK
Just a girl!  She's beautiful.

CHARLIE
She's my sister.

JACK
Wait a minute.  You told me that your sister had a face like a 
plate of steamed dumplings.

CHARLIE
You should see her without makeup.

JACK
You said that she was four foot tall and squat.

CHARLIE
I've got a lot of sisters.

JACK
We're asking her to lunch.

CHARLIE
No, no, no.  Listen.  She's Japanese, Jack.  We'll find you a 
nice American girl.

JACK
Uh, hi.  I'm uh, Jack.  I work with your brother Charlie.  Are 
you Dulcie?

CHARLIE
Lily.  Dulcie's my other sister.

JACK
Hi, Lily.

LILY
Hello.

JACK
Uh, we were just wondering if maybe you would join us for lunch?

CHARLIE
He was wondering.

LILY
What?

CHARLIE
Don't come with us...(TO JACK):  Look, I'm in a hurry.  She's 
busy.  Let's go.

LILY
I can have lunch.  (TO MR. MATSUI):  Can I take my lunch now, Mr. 
Matsui?

MATSUI
Sure.  Go ahead.

LILY
Thank you.  (TO JACK):  I can.

JACK
Oh, great.

CHARLIE
Great.

FUMIKO
Don't do anything I wouldn't do.

LILY
Fumiko, you have a big mouth.

SCENE 16

JACK
So, what are we ordering here, huh?
LILY
Can you read that?

JACK
Oh, yeah.  My Japanese is getting better everyday.

LILY
It's in Chinese.  It might help you if you turn the menu up the 
other way.

JACK
Maybe you oughta order then.

CHARLIE
Don't forget we're going to that game tonight.

JACK
Oh, yeah Lily, you gonna go with us?

CHARLIE
No.  She hates baseball.

LILY
I like baseball, creep.

CHARLIE
Oh shit, did you lock up?

JACK
No, I gave you the keys.

CHARLIE
I'll be back.  Talk about baseball.

LILY
So, you work in my father's theater?

CHARLIE
Yeah, projectionist.

LILY
The films must be boring for you.

CHARLIE
No.  No.  Some people would kill to get my job.  The last guy 
even killed himself.

LILY
Are you from Los Angeles?

CHARLIE
No, I'm from Philadelphia by way of New York.  I just got out 
here.  And you?

LILY
Little Tokyo.  By way of Little Tokyo.

JACK
Your father?

LILY
Ah, he's Issei.  First generation.  He's from Wakayama, Japan.

JACK
Issei.

LILY
Mm hm.  But all us kids were born right here.  Nisei.

JACK
Nisei.

LILY
Nisei.  That's us.  Second generation.

JACK
Oh.

LILY
What happened to your hands?

JACK
Oh, it's a long story.

LILY
Do they hurt?

JACK
Only when I use chopsticks.  Um, you work in the costume shop 
long?
LILY
Uh, since school.

JACK
And uh, your father owns that, too, or...?

LILY
Oh no, and he only rents the movie theater.  He's not allowed to 
own it.  He's Japanese.  It's against the law.

JACK
What, he never became a citizen or uh...?

LILY
That's against the law, too, for Japanese.

JACK
Well, I didn't know that.

LILY
Not many people do.

JACK
You're really beautiful, Lily.

LILY
Thank you.

JACK
I was expecting a plate of steamed dumplings.

LILY
To eat?

JACK
No.  To have lunch with.  Can I kiss you?

LILY
What?

JACK
Can I kiss you?

LILY
Shall we order?

JACK
What, the steamed dumplings?

LILY
To eat?

JACK
To eat...to have lunch with...to play baseball with...to kiss...

LILY
Just order.

JACK
Oh, I'm only serious.  Can I kiss you again?

LILY
It'll give you indigestion.

JACK
Kampai.

LILY
Kampai.

SCENE 17

DULCIE
You let him kiss you, just like that?  

LILY
Uh huh.

DULCIE
In a chop suey restaurant?  Are you gonna tell Mama?

LILY
No.  And neither are you.

DULCIE
You're gonna go dancing?
LILY
Uh huh.  Maybe.

DULCIE
Are you gonna kiss him again?

LILY
Maybe.

DULCIE
Are you gonna...do it?

LILY
Do it?

DULCIE
You know...it.

LILY
Dulcie, I just met him!

DULCIE
You kissed him in a chop suey restaurant for God sake!

LILY
Well, if I did, I'm certainly not going to tell you.

DULCIE
I guess this means you're not going to marry Mr. Fujioka.

LILY
No, I'm not.

DULCIE
Papa's gonna kill you if he finds out.

SCENE 18	Jack and Lily dance.

SCENE 19

JACK
Mr. Ogata left this behind before the rest of his spirit departed 
for heaven.

LILY
Poor Mr. Ogata.  I never saw him sober...How did you burn your 
hands?

JACK
Oh, in a fire.  It was a mistake.  I was a sweat shop lawyer for 
the New York Projectionists Union.

LILY
What's a sweat shop lawyer?

JACK
Not a real lawyer.  Nothing special.  Just anybody in the union 
who can read.  The Noris-La Guardia Anti-Injunction Act to the 
Wagner Labor Relations Act.  I know them all.  Every line, every 
comma.  Got me into trouble.

LILY
Why?

JACK
Because we lost sight of what we were fighting for.  It got too 
rough.  I'm not proud of it, but it's in the past.  Startin' 
over.  From nothin' to nothin.'

LILY
Tell me about your wife.

JACK
Uh, we were eighteen when we got married and it didn't work.  She 
went back to Ireland.

LILY
Why did she do that?

JACK
She had an accident.  She worked in a shoe factory and her hair 
got caught in one of the machines...It wasn't serious but she was 
pregnant and the shock of it made her lose the baby.  I wasn't 
there.  I was at a meeting.  She wasn't happy here so her sister 
paid for a ticket and she took the boat back home.  Can't blame 
her.  I guess she'd had enough of America...or enough of me...You 
don't like sake.

LILY
I hate it.

JACK
I'm gonna take you home.

LILY
No.  It's better if I go on my own.  I'll be fine.  If Papa sees 
you, you'll be joining Mr. Ogata in heaven.

JACK
Good night.

LILY
Good night.

SCENE 20

MINI
Did you really kiss him in the chop suey restaurant?

LILY
Yes, I did.

MINI
Weren't you embarrassed?

LILY
A little, maybe...No, it seemed a nice thing to do.  Come to 
think of it, I wasn't embarrassed one little bit.

MINI
Weren't people looking at you?

LILY
I didn't notice.

MINI
God, you were kissing him already and you hardly knew him!

LILY
Somehow it didn't seem to matter.

MINI
Did you love him?

LILY
Oh, yes.  Very much.

MINI
Did you go to lots of nice places?

LILY
Some.

MINI
What did Papa Kawamura say?

SCENE 21

PAPA K
No.

LILY
Papa, let's just talk about it even.

PAPA K
No!

LILY
Papa.

PAPA K
No!  No!  No!  No!

LILY
Mama?

FAMILY
Itadakimasu.
SCENE 22

CHARLIE
Come on.  (TO JACK):  Did you let him in?

JACK
No.  (TO MAN):  Come on, your Highness.  The Prime Minister wants 
to tell you how the invasion of China is going.

PAPA K
*Yells at Jack and fires him.

CHARLIE
Did you get that?

JACK
It's about Lily, right?

CHARLIE
He says your not to see her again.  And your fired.  He wants you 
gone by Friday.  It's best, Jack.  For her and you.  I told you 
Jack!  Best to get yourself a nice American girl.

SCENE 23

JACK
Lily?  Is Lily here?

MATSUI
No Lily.  Sorry.  She not work today.

JACK
What?

FUMIKO
She's gone to see her aunt on Terminal Island.

JACK
Thanks.

SCENE 24	Lily thinks about Jack on Terminal Island.

SCENE 25

JACK
Mr. Kawamura?  May I have a word with you, please?

NISHI-
KAWA
I'll leave you to your domestic problems, Hiroshi!

JACK
May I sit down, sir?  Mr. Kawamura, I'm sorry if I've offended 
you, sir.  I still don't know why I've offended you...You see, 
I'm just a dumb mick from New York and I'm not aware of all your 
customs and your traditions and all...But I'm trying really hard 
to learn.  And I would very much, like to see your daughter 
again, sir.

PAPA K
It's not possible.

JACK
To go out with her...

PAPA K
It's not possible.

JACK
To...

PAPA K
It's not possible!

JACK
You can keep saying "It's not possible" all night, Mr. Kawamura.  
Mr. Kawamura, I am trying really hard to be respectful, sir.  
Honest to God I am.  I'm trying really hard to understand what 
this must mean to you.  But I love your daughter.  And I know you 
look at me and see some bum who works for you for twenty dollars 
a week and doesn't seem to amount to much, I know that.  But I 
think that I can be better than that, sir.  And dumb and stupid 
as this may sound, to you, what I can never be, not ever, is 
Japanese.  But I couldn't love Lily more.

SCENE 26

JACK
How was Terminal Island?

LILY
Pretty.  We had tea with my aunt.  My mother and my sister 
stayed.  I left.  I took the ferry home.  They're still probably 
looking for me out on the beach.

JACK
I have to leave.

LILY
I know.  I heard.  Where will you go?

JACK
I don't know.  But I want you to come with me.  I want to marry 
you, Lilly.

SCENE 27

MINI
You sat up and talked all night?

LILY
Yep.

MINI
What did you talk about?

LILY
Oh, lots of stuff.  Your Papa knew so many things...about 
politics, history, and everything.

MINI
Did you kiss?

LILY
A little.

MINI
Did you have a big wedding?  With Mama and Papa Kawamura?  And 
Dulcie and Frankie and....

LILY
No.  No, we couldn't.

MINI
Why?

LILY
Well, for a start, Japanese aren't allowed to marry non-Japanese 
in the state of California.

MINI
Why?

LILY
Because it was against the California laws.

MINI
So where did you go?

LILY
Seattle.

MINI
Why did you go to Seattle?

LILY
Because it's not California and we could get married there.

MINI
Can we have a snowcone, Mama?

LILY
We've got tea.
MINI
But it's small.

LILY
Okay.  But just a small one.

MINI
Didn't even Mama Kawamura come to the wedding?

LILY
No.  No she didn't.

SCENE 28	Lily leaves home.

SCENE 29

MINI
What did you wear?  Were you pretty?

LILY
Oh, I had a beautiful dress...with a lace collar and cuffs...and 
I wore my hair special...with a bow just like yours.  It was a 
beautiful day.  It was the best wedding anyone ever had.  We had 
flowers.  We had champagne.  It was the best day of my life.  

SCENE 30

JACK
Come on.  Come on.

LILY
Where are we going?

JACK
A party.  They're playing our song.

MINI (VO)
You went to someone else's wedding?

LILY (VO)
No one seemed to mind.  And for Papa and me, it seemed like 
everyone had shown up just for us.

SCENE 31

LILY (VO)
We were happy.  So very happy.  Those days it seemed that all we 
ever did was kiss.

MINI (VO)
What about me?

SCENE 32

LILY (VO)
You were born on Christmas Day, 1937.  And we called you Minae, 
after Mama Kawamura's sister.  And you went to your first school 
there.

SCENE 33

LILY (VO)
In Seattle your Papa got a job in a cannery as a fish masher.

JACK
I'm telling you they're going about it all the wrong way.  It 
ain't enough to have something to say if you ain't got no one 
listening.  Six guys ain't gonna speak for everyone.  Only 
everyone speaks for everyone.  One wet, slimy fish ain't gonna 
speak for all the rest of these fish.  He might be a stinking 
fish.  And even if the rest of these suckers were alive and well 
and kicking, which they ain't, that one guy ain't gonna scare no 
one.  

EDDIE
They're pretty pleased with what they're doing.

JACK
There's a lot of things that are wrong around here.  If you was 
to throw that switch right now you'd probably take off both of my 
legs, and no one would give a shit that I was suddenly two foot 
shorter.  'Cause the only way you're gonna get those guys 
upstairs in the suits to listen to ya, is when a big fish comes 
along, and he swallows up all the rest of these little fish, and 
this big fucking fish has teeth so huge, it scares the shit out 
of those guys upstairs in the suits!  Because they know that it 
can bite off both of their arms and legs!

EDDIE
If your so smart, how come you don't do something about it?

JACK
Because I promised someone I wouldn't.

EDDIE
Who did you promise?

JACK
My wife.

SCENE 34

JACK
You have no right to do this!  These people have a legal right to 
picket!  

MAN
Says who?

JACK
Says the law!  Under the Clayton Act of 1914, these men have the 
legal right to picket!  They are workers from this company, and 
they have legitimate grievances!  They were demonstrating 
peacefully!  And you have no right to do this!  These men were 
fighting for all of you, are you going to allow these people to 
get away with this?  Would you get this man an ambulance?

SCENE 35

JACK
I'm not shouting!  Look, I work in a place where for seventy 
eight cents an hour we stuff dead fish into cans.  If we don't 
work Saturdays we get laid off.

LILY
I don't want to hear it!  Why do you always have to see the bad 
in everything?

JACK
Because maybe things should be a little bit better, that's why.  
The people working down there...

LILY
But it makes you so angry!  Why do you always have to be angry at 
everyone?

JACK
I'm angry because the people working there are so stuffed with 
shit they have to be grateful because they're not standing in 
soup kitchen lines anymore!  So they stink of fish everyday!

LILY
But why does it have to be you?  Why can't it be someone else?  
It's too dangerous for you Jack!  

JACK
You don't think that if it was someone else, they don't have 
wives and husbands and kids to think about?

LILY
We're happy, Jack.

JACK
Happy?  What in the hell does happy have to do with any of this?  
You're happy.  Maybe I'm not so happy.  Lily, it's not you.  I 
swear to God, it's not you.  It's just that maybe things bother 
me that you don't about.  Maybe things bother me so much that I 
can't speak sometimes, I get so choke up with rage and I...I 
agreed to hand out a bundle of leaflets on a street corner and 
you act as if I'm going out to kill someone.
LILY
Because you know that one thing will lead to another and it will 
make you crazy!  You can't spit against heaven, Jack!

JACK
Oh, don't give me that Japanese shit!  Oh Lily, I'm sorry.  I'm 
truly sorry, Honey.  It's just a few leaflets.  I promise.

SCENE 36	Jack gets arrested at a demonstration.

SCENE 37	Lily waits for Jack at the dinner table/Jack goes to 
jail.

SCENE 38

LILY (VO)
I don't know why I left your Papa that day.  But sometimes you 
get pushed and pulled without ever knowing the reasons why.  But 
I knew I couldn't stay.  I had to be with Mama and Papa Kawamura.

SCENE 39

DETECTIVE
Do you have a history of labor union business, McGann?  It is 
McGann, isn't it?

JACK
Yeah, McGann.  No.  No I don't.  I work in the cannery.  I'm a 
fish masher.

DETECTIVE
You people caused quite a stir.

JACK
It was a legal demonstration, sir.  Perfectly within the 
constitution...

DETECTIVE
Well, all that striking stuff's over now, mister.  When the Japs 
step on the beach, you think they're gonna take any notice of 
your banners?  They'll stick a goddamn bayonet in your belly, 
grievance or no grievance.  This is America, pal, so remember, 
you're an American.  We're at war now.

JACK
What are you talking about?

DETECTIVE
Ain't you heard?  The Japs just bombed Pearly Harbor.  It's all 
over the radio.

SCENE 40

DULCIE
Lily!  You never said you were coming!

JOYCE
I knew you would come back!

LILY
Joyce, you've grown!

DULCIE
Is that Mini?  She's so cute!

LILY
Harry!

HARRY
Lily!  It's good you came.  It's great to see you.

LILY
It's nice to see you, too.  Where's Mama?

JOYCE
She's upstairs.

LILY
Who are these men?

HARRY
FBI.  They're searching the house.

DULCIE
They arrested Papa, Lily.

LILY
What?

HARRY
They've arrested many Issei.  All the Kendo big shots.  They say 
Papa's a potentially dangerous alien.

DULCIE
They've searched the house three times.

LILY
Papa?  Dangerous?

DULCIE
Charlie's at the police station to find out what's happening.  
Where's Jack?

LILY
He's in Seattle.

SCENE 41

LILY
Mama?  Mama?  I'm so sorry.  I'm sure things will be all right, 
Mama.  They'll know Papa is a good man.  He never harmed anybody.  
He didn't do anything wrong.  They'll see that and...Mama.  I 
wrote to you all these years and you never once wrote back.  
Dulcie told me that Papa wouldn't let you write.  But it never 
upset me because all the time I pretended that you did...Every 
week I would write to you as if you were reading all my letters 
and sending to me all your news.  I told you everything...just 
like we used to talk.  If Mini had a cold, or fell over and cut 
her knee, I'd let you know.  I know you wanted to write, 
Mama...I'm so sorry, Mama.  I love you.  Please, talk to me, 
Mama.

MINI
Mama?

MAMA K
Mini?  Mini-chan?  Come here.  Come here.  Oh, Mini-chan!  I 
missed you, Lily.

LILY
I'm here now, Mama.

SCENE 42

LILY
Did you see him?

CHARLIE
He's okay.  He's depressed, but he's okay.  He's asked for his 
shaving stuff and some clean shirts and socks.  He left without 
any socks.

HARRY
They're going to keep him here on Terminal Island for a day or 
two and then they're sending him away.

LILY
Where to?

CHARLIE
He thinks North Dakota.

LILY
But why?  What did he do?

CHARLIE
They say he was a member of the Nippon Bunka Kyokai and Nichibei 
Kinema, so he's had direct contact with the enemy.

LILY
But they were only cultural societies.  They were plays he was 
bringing over, not machine guns.

CHARLIE
And movies.  Don't forget the crummy movies.  They're a dangerous 
weapon.  They can bore you to death.
LILY
What are we going to tell Mama?

HARRY
The truth.

LILY
But they could be home in a week.

CHARLIE
People say they're going send all of us away.

LILY
All of us?  Nisei, too?

CHARLIE
All of us.

SCENE 43

LILY
We're not open.  Mr. Matsui is not here.

JACK
Where's Mr. Matsui?

LILY
He's been arrested.  So has my father.

JACK
Why?

LILY
They're Japanese.

JACK
I'm sorry.  I'm truly sorry.

LILY
I heard you were in jail.

JACK
Probation.

LILY
What happened to your arm?

JACK
A horse.

LILY
You were on a horse?

JACK
Under it.

LILY
Oh, Jack!

JACK
Oh, Lily!  Lily!  I'm sorry.  It's all right.  It's all right.  
Oh, Lily.  I missed you so much.

SCENE 44

JACK
They could break both of my arms and my legs and it could never 
hurt me as much as losing you, Lily.  You have a happiness inside 
you that makes you so beautiful.  It's as if someone gave you a 
little bag of magic that only you can dip into.  And I see the 
way you look at Mini and in your eyes is something so perfect no 
one can touch it.  No one can cheat you or steal it away from you 
because it's something no one else can have.  I love you so much, 
Lily.  You're braver than anyone I ever knew.  You have 
everything that I never had.  And I was still so blind and stupid 
I didn't see that you were looking at me the same way as you 
looked at Mini and that nothing else mattered.  You were just 
giving me a little handful of that magic.  And no one, and no 
thing, is ever going to take that away from us.  No one.  Never.


SCENE 45

JACK
So you're going to be really nice to him, okay?

MINI
Yes.

JACK
Now what you do is tell him who you are, and you tell them that 
you're the goodest girl in America, and then you just sort of 
slip in about what you want for Christmas, okay?  And then he's 
gonna tell his elves.  And his elves, they work for him.  They 
work overtime for no pay.  And they make all the toys for all the 
boys and girls in America.  Did you know that?  Here you go.  Sit 
on Santa's lap.

SANTA
Scoot, pal.  I ain't sitting no Japanese kid on my lap, for 
Christ's sakes.

JACK
Wait a minute.  Wait a minute, Santa.  We're the next in line 
here.

SANTA
No Japs.  Sorry, fellah.  It ain't my rule.  Just read the sign.  
Japs don't have Christmas anyway, they're Buddhists.

JACK
No, wait.  Just a second.  Please ma'am.  Please, just a second.  
Baby, come here, just for a second.  I'm going to sit you down 
right here and Daddy's gonna talk to Santa.  Okay?

MINI
Yeah.

JACK
Okay.  Look, that little girl ain't no Buddhist, pal!  As a 
matter of fact she's a Christian and she believes in Santa Claus.  
Now either you're going to sit her on your lap and let her tell 
you what she wants for Christmas or I'm gonna stuff this fuckin' 
beard down your fuckin' throat, fattso!

SANTA
Mickey!  Will you get over here.  A trouble maker!

MICKEY
Come on!  Come on!  Out!  Out!  Out!

JACK
Get your hands off of me!  All I want is for my little daughter 
to sit on this jerk's lap!

MICKEY
We don't serve Japs here, pal.  Read the sign.  Read the sign.  
What, are you from an orphanage or something?

JACK
No, I'm not from an orphanage!  She's an American and I'm her 
father!  She's an American!  Merry Christmas!

SCENE 46

JOYCE
Should we leave the latch up on the door Mama, in case Papa comes 
back and we're asleep?

CHARLIE
He won't be back tonight.

DULCIE
He might be.

HARRY
Jack, your turn.  Everyone has to sing.

JACK
I don't sing.

CHARLIE
C'mon, Jack!  Whoever heard of an Irishman who didn't sing?
JACK
I don't sing.

LILY
He can sing.

JACK
I do not.

LILY
Yes you do.  He's just shy.  Make him sing.

JACK
*Jack sings a song from an old 1930's Japanese movie.

SCENE 47

CHARLIE
4C?  Enemy alien?  I can't believe this shit!

HARRY
"Friendly" enemy alien.

CHARLIE
Yeah, what about the Germans and the Italians?  Is Joe Di Maggio 
an enemy alien for Christ's sakes?

HARRY
Shikataganai!

CHARLIE
Shikataganai, shit!  It's wrong, Harry!  It's terribly wrong!

SCENE 48

LILY (VO)
Those were very bad days for us.  At the time, the Japanese Army 
seemed to be winning all the battles.  And every time a couple of 
whales popped their heads up from the ocean, someone said they 
were Japanese submarines about to attack California.

SCENE 49

LILY
For us the war was so far away.  We were in Los Angeles and we 
were Americans.  Or we thought we were Americans.  But people 
looked at our faces and we weren't Americans anymore.  We were 
the enemy.

MINI
Were you frightened?

LILY
No, not really.  Because we really couldn't believe what was 
happening.  And then Mr. Roosevelt signed the "Executive Order 
Number 9066" saying that all Japanese families must be sent away.

MINI
To the camps?

LILY
At first we didn't know where, and suddenly in March, they told 
us that we had six days to go.

MINI
Six days?

LILY
Six days, to pack up everything and leave.

MINI
I remember that part.

SCENE 50	Mini has to leave school.




SCENE 51

DULCIE
If there's not going to be thyphoid where we're going, why do we 
have to have typhoid shots?

JOYCE
What's typhoid?

DULCIE
I'll be scarred for life.  I heard some people got crippled from 
these shots.

LILY
Stop it, Dulcie.  Don't exaggerate.

DULCIE
It's true!  Judy Hayashi told me.

JOYCE
Do we have to get rid of everything, Harry?

HARRY
We can only take what we can carry.  Seventy pounds.  The rest 
has to go.

FRANKIE
Everything?

HARRY
Everything.

FRANKIE
What about the chickens?

HARRY
We'll leave the chickens.

DULCIE
The Ogawas had to kill their chickens.

JOYCE
How about the dog?

FRANKIE
We can't take the dog?

LILY
Mrs. Fu is taking the dog.

DULCIE
Don't Chinese eat dogs?

FRANKIE
What about my mitt?  Can I take my mitt?

DULCIE
Sure you can take your mitt.  Wherever we're going, they're not 
going to stop you from playing baseball.  Are they?

CHARLIE
Uh, this gentleman wants to see the piano.

HARRY
Certainly.  Come on Joyce, show this gentleman what a fine piano 
it is.

CHARLIE
I got fifteen dollars for the Bendex.

SCENE 52

LILY
Are you okay?

JACK
I'm going to take Mini for a walk.  Okay?

SCENE 53

LILY
You okay, Mama?

MAMA K
Mm.

LILY
What are you burning?

MAMA K
Just stuff.  We cannot take it with us and it's too...precious to 
leave behind.  I don't want people going through our things.  How 
many things you keep.  In Japan, people don't have so many 
things.  You know, when I first got off the steamer at Angel 
Island...pretty name, isn't it?  ...all I had was the clothes I 
was wearing, a small bag, a pretty hat and a parasol.  Things I 
hate burning most are your school reports.  How are people going 
to know how well you did?

LILY
They'll know, Mama.  They'll know.

SCENE 54

LILY
The man didn't buy the piano?

HARRY
He didn't offer enough.

LILY
How much?

DULCIE
Ten dollars.

HARRY
I got him up from five.  I said I'd sooner burn it.

FRANKIE
How do you burn a piano?

DULCIE
What are we going to do with these old records?  They're all 
Japanese.  No one's going to buy them.

LILY
Break them.

JOYCE
Break them?

LILY
Sure.  Break them.

SCENE 55

DULCIE
Good bye, Jack.

LILY
When will you get back from Seattle?

JACK
Just a couple of days.  A week at the most.  I'm just gonna check 
in for my parole and then I'm coming.

LILY
If only we knew where we were going.

JACK
I'll find you, Lily.  Good bye, Mama.  Don't worry.  This won't 
be for long, I'm sure.

DULCIE
Why are the blinds down?

HARRY
So we won't know where we're going.

JACK
You okay?

MINI
Yes.

JACK
Okay.

SCENE 56	Jack walks around deserted Little Tokyo.

SCENE 57

MAMA K
Rattlesnakes?

WOMAN
And rabbits...

MAMA K
Huh?

WOMAN
...that bite.

DULCIE
I want to throw up.

CHARLIE
You don't want to throw up.

WOMAN
And mosquitoes.

DULCIE
I want to throw up.

JOYCE
You don't want to throw up.

WOMAN
Big mosquitoes.  The size of sparrows that suck your blood.

CHARLIE
Oh shit!  She did throw up.

SCENE 58

JACK
Hey!  Hey, get out of here!  You get out of here!  Fucking little 
vultures!

SCENE 59

CHARLIE
I can't bring my camera?

SOLDIER
Sorry, it's on the list.

SCENE 60

FRANKIE
Thanks for coming with me, Lily.

LILY
That's okay.  I was scared to come on my own as well.

FRANKIE
Do you think they'll shoot us?

LILY
No, of course not.

FRANKIE
Do you think they'll send us back to Japan?

LILY
I don't know.  I truly don't know, Frankie.

FRANKIE
I've never been to Japan.

LILY
Me either.

LILY (VO)
We stayed at the race track for two months...until they moved us 
to a new home, way out in the desert.


SCENE 61

LILY (VO)
The journey on the bus seemed to go on forever.  And finally we 
arrived.  But all I could remember was the mountains, the cold, 
and the dust.

SCENE 62

CLERK
Next!  You have twenty-four hours to report for drafting, Mr. 
McGann.  Your parole is annulled under Section 472 of the War 
Powers Act.

JACK
But, um, I need to go to Los Angeles.

CLERK
Don't think so.  It says Tacoma.  Yep, Tacoma.  You report 
tomorrow.  It's pretty clear, else...

JACK
Else what?

CLERK
Else you'll find yourself in jail instead of the Army, mister.  
Next, please.

SCENE 63

LILY (VO)
We lined up for everything.  We seemed to spend half our lives 
lining up for something or other.  Our lives had changed 
completely and we spent our whole time pretending they hadn't.

SCENE 64	Jack completes army training.

SCENE 65

MAMA K
What is it?

DULCIE
Something about stealing food.  There's a man with blood all down 
his apron.  I think he got punched.

FRANKIE
You wanna play one on one after, Charlie?

CHARLIE
No.

DULCIE
There's a guy with his nose split wide open.

CHARLIE
Michi Hokoda saw ten sides of beef under a sheet in the back of 
one of the administrator's trucks.

JOYCE
Maybe they're starving us to death.

DULCIE
"Too much slop suey gives you spots, makes you pooey!"

HARRY
We have enough to eat.

MAMA K
Gambare.  Shikataganai, ne?

CHARLIE
It's got to be stopped.  Or else someone's going to get their 
throat cut!

HARRY
It's hard feeding all these people.  It's a fucking camp for 
Christ's sakes!

LILY
Don't swear in front of Mama.

HARRY
She doesn't know the word.
MAMA K
I know the word.

CHARLIE
It's not a camp.  A camp is where you go fishing.  Sit around 
fires made from rubbing two sticks together.  This isn't the 
fucking Boy Scouts, Harry!

JOYCE
Charlie, please don't swear in front of Mama.

CHARLIE
She's Japanese!  She doesn't understand the word.

MAMA K
I know the word.

LILY
Mama.  It's Papa!

PAPA
Mini-chan?  Mini-chan!  Oh!  Oh!

LILY
Kiss your grandpa.

PAPA
Oh, thank you!

SCENE 66	The Kawamura family walks to their barracks.

SCENE 67

LILY (VO)
Papa Kawamura never was happy at the camp.  People whispered and 
whispered.  Silly, spiteful rumors that he had given information 
to the FBI when he was at Fort Lincoln.  It wasn't true, but it 
didn't matter.  In those days, people only believed the worst.  
No one would talk to him and he got lonelier and lonelier.  
Sadder and sadder.

SCENE 68

JOYCE
Alice Noguchi!  How could they pick her?  She's got a face like a 
latrine bucket.

DULCIE
Big tits!  They always pick the one with big tits.

FRANKIE
They're not so big.

SCENE 69	Mr. Kawamura sings to Mini.

SCENE 70	A man is attacked in the camp.

SCENE 71

JACK
Thanks for stopping.

MAN
If you can find room back there, you're more than welcome, 
soldier.  You all right?

JACK
Yeah.

SCENE 72

MPs
Hey, Kenji!  Come on!  Let's go!

SCENE 73

HARRY
One of the JACL-ers has been beaten up.  They're blaming the 
kitchen union people.  There's going to be trouble.  We should 
get home, Mama.
MAMA K
Where's Charlie?

HARRY
I don't know Mama.

SCENE 74

MAN
Where you stationed?

JACK
Fairmont.

MAN
On a 24-hour?

JACK
What's left of it.

MAN
You got friends down at the camp?

JACK
Yeah, kind of.

MAN
Real good people, some of them Japs.  Had a couple of them 
working for me.  Real hard workers.  Trouble is, you don't know 
which ones to trust, which ones will shoot you in the back.  Hard 
problem.  Beats me.

SCENE 75	Demonstration at the camp.

SCENE 76

MAN
What's going on here?

SOLDIER
Road's closed, sir.  You're going to have to back up.

JACK
What's going on?

SOLDIER
The Japs in the camp are rioting.  They say a whole bunch of them 
have been shot.  It's a mess down there.  Okay, sir.  Back it up.  
Try again tomorrow.

SCENE 77

MAMA K
I heard guns.  I definitely heard guns.

JOYCE
I think I saw tanks.

FRANKIE
They were trucks.  Tanks have guns sticking out, stupid.

JOYCE
I know what a tank looks like!

LILY
Charlie will be okay, Mama.

HARRY
God willing.

LILY
Stay away from the window, there's nothing you can do.

MAMA K
I heard more guns.

JOYCE
I wish they'd stop that chanting.  It's kind of scary.

LILY
Charlie will be home soon, Mama.

MAMA K
Charlie would never get into any trouble.
HARRY
That was before they took him off hamburgers.  Now are "All 
American" has a rising sun tattooed on his backside.  He's 
changed, Mama.

LILY
No one changes inside.

SCENE 78	Charlie demonstrates.

SCENE 79

LILY (VO)
When they finally opened the camp two days later, your Papa could 
come visit us.  We hadn't seen or heard from him for seven whole 
months.

SCENE 80

JACK
So was Charlie hurt bad?

JOYCE
No, he got hit on the head with a rifle.

DULCIE
He says he's okay, but they put him in the camp hospital anyway.  
More tea, Mama?

MAMA K
No.  I have to go to the lavatory.  That tea does terrible things 
to my bladder.

DULCIE
Come on, Joyce.  Let's take Mama to the bathroom.

JOYCE
It's a long walk.

DULCIE
I don't care.  Get your coat on.  You're coming.  Mini, you wanna 
come, too?

MAMA K
Jack, don't go before you say good-bye.

JACK
All right, Mama.  I'll be right here.

LILY
She'll be twenty-two minutes.

JACK
Twenty-two minutes?

LILY
Uh huh.  Mama looked all over the camp for a toilet she liked 
that wasn't broken and had partitions, and it's on the K block.  
It takes her eleven minutes to walk there, and eleven minutes to 
walk back.  Why do you think we gave her so much tea?

JACK
Frankie?

LILY
School.

JACK
And your Papa?

LILY
He's at the hospital with Charlie.  He sits there all day in a 
chair next to his bed.  Neither of them will talk.

JACK
Why?

LILY
Because Charlie thinks that Papa gave the FBI information at Fort 
Lincoln.  Papa hates him for believing it.

JACK
So, we have twenty-two minutes?

LILY
Twenty-two minutes.  And then I have to get back to work.

JACK
Work?

LILY
Mm hm.  Camouflage nets.  We make five nets or work eight hours.  
For fourteen dollars a month.

JACK
Fourteen dollars a month?

LILY
Don't fret!  Doctors only make nineteen a month.  People say 
they've been giving us Army K rations, with all that salt 
peter...to reduce our sex drives.

JACK
They have?

LILY
It's not true.

SCENE 81	Mama, Dulcie, Joyce and Mini walk back from the 
bathroom.

SCENE 82	Papa sits quietly by Charlie's bed.

SCENE 83

JACK
Bye-bye Mini Mouse.  You gonna be okay?

MINI
O.K.

DRIVER
Come on, fella!  Are we goin' or what?

JACK
Okay.

DRIVER
Come on!  Come on!  I got a schedule to keep!

SCENE 84

MINI
Did Papa get into trouble?

LILY
A little.  By the time he got back to Fairmont, he was three days 
absent without leave.  But he was okay.

MINI
And Papa Kawamura?

LILY
He just wouldn't talk to anybody.

MINI
Why was he so unhappy?

LILY
Because every day he was in America, he talked of one day going 
home to Wakayama a rich man.  But any money he'd have he lose.  
He'd lost his shirt so many times it never mattered to him.  
"Shikataganai" he'd always say.  But once you lose your self-
respect, only then do you truly have nothing.

MINI
Poor Papa Kawamura.  He must have been so sad.

SCENE 85

LILY (VO)
For a whole year, he just dug away in his vegetable patch.  Or 
he'd work on his chair.  When the chair was finished, he just sat 
there for hours.  We all wanted so badly to have a life here.  
It's a beautiful country, if only you have eyes to see it.  But 
suddenly, we all felt like a blind man peeping through a fence.
SCENE 86

DULCIE
I don't get it.  We all have to sign this thing?

LILY
Everyone over 17.

DULCIE
Read it again.

LILY
Answer yes or no.  Number 27:  Are you willing to serve in the 
armed forces of the United States on combat duty wherever 
ordered?

JOYCE
We have to go in the Army?

DULCIE
No!  Answer no.  I don't want to go in the Army.  It's bad enough 
they put us in here!

LILY
Wait.  There's worse.

MAN
Lily, can I have a word with you, please?  Your mother is not 
allowed to work.  She's a Japanese national.

LILY
We know that.

MAN
Then could you ask her to leave?

LILY
No, why should she?  She's not getting paid.  She's bored.  She 
has nothing else to do.  She's just sitting here with her family.

MAMA K
Is there something wrong?

LILY
No, Mama.  Sit down.

MAN
Sorry, it's the law.

LILY
The law?  Don't talk about the law.  What law protects innocent 
American citizens from being locked up for no crime?

MAN #2
Your mother cannot work.  She's Issei.  Foreign nationals cannot 
do war work.

LILY
She's not working!

MAN #2
Then ask her to leave.

MAMA K
Lily, maybe I should go.

LILY
No, Mama.  Sit down!  She will not leave!  Why should she?

MAN #2
Camp rules.

LILY
Rules?

MAN #2
Camp rules.

LILY
Camp?  You call this a camp?  This is a goddamn outdoor jail!




SCENE 87

HARRY
Number 28:  Will you swear unqualified allegiance to the United 
States of America and faithfully defend the United States from 
any or all attack by foreign or domestic forces...and forswear 
any form of allegiance or obedience to the Japanese Emperor, or 
to any other foreign government, power or organization?  Answer 
yes or no.

MAMA K
But how can we do that?  We can't be U.S. citizens.  It's against 
the law.  If we say "yes," we won't have any country.

CHARLIE
So say "no."

HARRY
If we say no, they'll keep you in the camps forever.

CHARLIE
If you say yes, you'll be in the Army shooting at other Japanese.  
Or end up being sent home in a wooden kimono.

HARRY
But we're Americans.

CHARLIE
We stopped being Americans the moment they put up the barbed 
wire!

HARRY
We have to say "yes," Mama.  Papa?  Charlie?

CHARLIE
No.  No.  What about you?

HARRY
I'm gonna go in the Army.

SCENE 88

JACK
Joycie?

JOYCE
Jack!

MINI
Papa?

JACK
Mini?  Mini!  Oh, Mini!  Mini!  You're so big I didn't even 
recognize you!  

JOYCE
Hi.

JACK
Did you lose a tooth?

MINI
Yes.

JACK
You did?  Where's Lily?  No one's home.

JOYCE
They're at the hospital.  Papa's sick.

SCENE 89

JACK
Lily?

LILY
Jack!  Oh, Jack!  You didn't tell me you had leave.

JACK
It was sudden.  They ship us out in a week.

LILY
Where?

JACK
They won't tell us.

LILY
Mini?  I'm going to take you home now, okay?

JACK
I'm gonna stay here with your father for a while.

LILY
Okay.

PAPA K
Water.  Water.

JACK
It's Jack, Mr. Kawamura.  I need your help, sir.  You see, I'm 
not here on leave.  I ran away from the Army.  God knows why, but 
I thought that if I could be here with all of you that maybe I 
could help.  But then when I came through those gates back there 
I realized I can't help, not one little bit.  And I just know 
that this whole terrible thing that's happened is my fault...the 
big part and the little part.  But I just wanted to say 
that...even if you don't want to hear it...I love you all so 
much.

PAPA K
You go back.

JACK
I can't.

PAPA K
Go back.

JACK
I can't leave you all here.  I have to do something.

PAPA K
Just love Lily.  That's enough.

JACK
Papa.

SCENE 90	Jack leaves the camp.

SCENE 91

CAPTAIN
You were married in Seattle?

JACK
Yes, sir.

CAPTAIN
Your wife is Lily Yuriko Kawamura?

JACK
Yes, sir.

CAPTAIN
And you were drafted May 11, 1942?

JACK
Yes, sir.

CAPTAIN
You're in a whole lot of trouble, soldier.

JACK
Yes, sir.  I know, sir.

CAPTAIN
Would you say you had pro-Japanese sympathies?

JACK
Yes, sir.  I married one, sir.

CAPTAIN
The way the Army sees it, soldier, you're either pro-Japanese or 
you're pro-American.  There's no in-between.  Not anymore.  It's 
not like being a Red Sox fan in a Pittsburgh/New York World 
Series.

JACK
My wife is an American citizen, sir.

CAPTAIN
You think the camps are wrong?

JACK
Yes, sir.  I do.

CAPTAIN
Well, for what it matters, soldier, I agree with you.  It's like 
burning down Chicago to get rid of the gangsters.

JACK
It's a God-awful mistake.

CAPTAIN
That scared people fighting wars often make.  But there are also 
a lot of apple pie Americans out there who wouldn't hate a soul 
before all of this, who've got kids being slaughtered by the 
Japanese Army.  Everyday they hear about another Japanese unit 
going Banzai and bayonetting women and kids.  Maybe locking your 
people away is the best place for them.

JACK
It's unconstitutional.  They had their rights taken away from 
them.  The Nisei who were born here are American citizens.

CAPTAIN
So are you, soldier, and you went AWOL.  So a lot of American 
kids are dying instead of you.

AGENT
How do you spell your name, McGann?

JACK
M, small c, G-a-n-n.

AGENT
You ever spell it M, small c, G-u-r-n?  Were you ever Jack 
McGurn?  Were you ever a member of Local 306 of the New York 
Projectionist Union?  

JACK
Yes I was.

AGENT
I think you're in a lot of trouble, soldier.

SCENE 92	The Kawamura family is watching a movie in the camp.

SCENE 93	Papa Kawamura dies.

SCENE 94

MAMA K
We had a cousin who knew Papa's family in Wakayama.  She sent my 
picture to your Papa.  With your Papa, it was one day new shoes 
for everyone.  The next day, we sell the radio.  Once he bought 
me a new coat in the morning, and we had to sell it by 
suppertime.  All on the flip of a card.  Seven times down, eight 
times up.  But now, after all of this, for Papa it was seven 
times up and eight times down.  Sometimes, it's better to die 
than to give up on life.

SCENE 95

LILY (VO)
Then it seemed all we did was say good-bye.  Dulcie volunteered 
to help with the sugar beet harvest in Idaho.  At least Dulcie 
was free, for a while.

SCENE 96

LILY (VO)
Charlie was sent to a special camp at Tule Lake with all the 
others who had answered "no" on their loyalty questionnaires.  
They were called the "No No Boys."

CHARLIE
Bye Frankie.

FRANKIE
Bye Charlie...Hey Charlie, don't take any wooden nickels.

SCENE 97

JOYCE
Why are you throwing up, Dulcie?  You're not even on a bus.

LILY (VO)
Dulcie came back from the Idaho Sugar Harvest with a nice sun 
tan, sixty dollars pay, and a baby inside of her.  Mama was 
furious.

SCENE 98

LILY (VO)
Then in December, the Supreme Courts ruled that the camps were 
unconstitutional.

WOMAN
Endo won his case!  They can't keep us here anymore!  We can go 
home!

LILY (VO)
It seemed that all of our troubles were over.  Shikataganai.  We 
had gone through the worst.  We had lost everything we owned and 
everything we loved.  It wasn't possible to lose anymore.  But 
Mama says a wasp always stings a crying face...

SCENE 99

LILY (VO)
...because we also lost Harry.  It was our last winter in the 
camp.  And our darkest.

SCENE 100 Mama Kawamura scrubs Harry's bed.

SCENE 101

LILY (VO)
Charlie decided to repatriate to Japan.  There was a big exchange 
for American prisoners of war.  Poor Charlie.  He had never been 
to Japan before.  He hardly spoke Japanese.

SCENE 102 The Kawamura family leaves the camp.

SCENE 103

LILY (VO)
We had no home to go back to in Little Tokyo.  So we went to stay 
with Mama Kawamura's cousin, Sahoko, on the strawberry farm here 
in Florin.

SCENE 104

LILY
On August 6th, they dropped a bomb on Hiroshima.  It was a big 
bomb.  They called it the atomic bomb.  In nine tiny seconds, two 
hundred thousand people were killed.  It had to be the end.  No 
one could endure more.

MINI
Mama!  It's the train!

LILY
Let's go.

SCENE 105

LILY
Jack!  Jack!

JACK
How ya doin'?

MINI
Okay.
1
