Emma




SCENE 1 -HIGHBURY

NARRATOR

In a time when one's town was one's town was one's world...and the actions
at a dance excited greater interest than the movement of armies, there
lived a young woman, who knew how this world should be runned.

EMMA

The most beautiful thing in the world is a match well made, and a happy
marriage to you both.

MRS WESTON

Oh, thank you Emma. Your painting grows more accomplished every day.

EMMA

You are very kind, but it would be all the better if I had practiced my
drawing more, as you urged me.

MRS WESTON

It's very beautiful.

MR ELTON

I should never take sides against you, Miss Woodhouse, but your friend is
right. It is indeed a job well done.

EMMA

The job well done, Mr Elton was yours in performing the ceremony.

MR WOODHOUSE

Must the church be so drafty, Mr Elton? It is very difficult to surrender
the soul when one is worried about one's throat.

MR ELTON

Perhaps some tea and cake would revive you, Mr Woodhouse.

MR WOODHOUSE

Miss Taylor! Surely you are not serving cake at your wedding! Far too rich!
You put us all at peril. And I am not alone in feeling so. Where is Mr
Penning, the apothecary, he will support me.

MRS WESTON

He's over there, Mr Woodhouse, having some cake.

MR WOODHOUSE

What?!

EMMA

I have to take father home, but dear Miss Taylor-Oh, no! You are dear Miss
Taylor no more! You are dear Mrs Weston now! And how happy this must make
you. Such happiness this brings to all of us.

MRS WESTON

My dear Emma!

SCENE 2-HARTFIELD

MR WOODHOUSE

Poor Miss Taylor! She was so happy here. Why should she give up being your
governess, only to be married?

EMMA

I am grown now. She cannot put up with my ill humors forever. She must wish
for children of her own.

MR WOODHOUSE

You have no ill humors. Your own mother, God rest her, could be no more
real than Miss Taylor. Can she truly wish to give life to a mewling infant
who will import disease each time it enters the house? No, I say poor Miss
Taylor, and poor indeed she is.

MR KNIGHTLEY

As an old friend of the family, I had to ask as soon as I got back: Who
cried the most at the wedding?

(later)

EMMA

And how is my sister? Is your brother giving her the respect we Woodhouse
ladies deserve?

MR WOODHOUSE

Poor Isabella. She was the first to leave me. No doubt that is where Miss
Taylor got the notion to go.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Don't be too hard on Miss Taylor. It must be easier for her to have only
one to please than two.

EMMA

Especially when one of us is such a troublesome creature.

MR WOODHOUSE

Yes, I am. Most troublesome.

EMMA

Dear papa, I could never mean you! Mr Knightley loves to find fault with
me, that's all. It's his idea of a joke.

MR KNIGHTLEY

I am practically a brother to you Emma. It is not a brother's job to find
fault with his sister?

MR WOODHOUSE

But where is the fault with you? Emma bears it well, but she is most sorry
to lose Miss Taylor.

MR KNIGHTLEY

We would not like Emma so well if she did not miss her friend.

MR WOODHOUSE

Thank you.

EMMA

I shall miss her so. I do not know what I shall do without her.

MR KNIGHTLEY

She's not far.

MR WOODHOUSE

Almost half a mile.

EMMA

Her obligations are there now. She cannot sit and talk with me in the old
way, or walk with me, or urge me to better myself.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Well, that should not matter, as you always did just as you pleased.

EMMA

Yes, but I shall miss her urging me. She was a selfless a friend as I have
ever had, and I hope to say someday that I have done half so much for
someone as Mrs Weston did for me.

MR KNIGHTLEY

You must be happy that she settled so well.

EMMA

Indeed! One matter of joy in this is that I made the match myself. People
said Mr Weston would never marry again, and what a triumph!

MR KNIGHTLEY

Triumph! You made a lucky guess!

EMMA

Have you never known a triumph from a lucky guess? Had I not promoted Mr
Weston's visits, and given encouragement where encouragement was needed, we
might not have had a wedding today.

MR WOODHOUSE

Then please, my dear, encourage nowhere else. Marriage is so disrupting to
one's social circle.

EMMA

Only one more, papa. When Mr Elton joined their hands today, he looked very
much like he would like the same kind of office performed for him.

MR KNIGHTLEY

*sigh*

MR WOODHOUSE

Invite him for dinner. That is kindness enough.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Mr Elton is a man of twenty-six. He knows how to take care of himself.

EMMA

One does not like to generalize about so many people all at once, Mr
Knightley, but you may be sure that men know nothing of their hearts,
whether they be six and twenty, or six and eighty. Except you, of course,
father. No, Mr Elton will be the next person to benefit from my help.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Poor Miss Taylor indeed! 'Tis Mr Elton which deserves our pity.

SCENE 3-PARTY AT HARTFIELD

EMMA

Mr Elton! Welcome to our party!

MR ELTON

Yes, Miss Woodhouse, thank you indeed for including me. A party is a party,
but a party on a summers eve...

EMMA

It relieves my mind very much that you are here, for there is someone new
in our group. Her name is Harriet Smith, and she is a former pupil of Mrs
Goddard. I had never met Miss Smith before this evening, and am already
struck by her charm. I wonder if I might ask you to make certain she is at
ease throughout the evening.

MR ELTON

If helping Miss Smith would help Miss Woodhouse, then I am happy to be of
service.

EMMA

Come, I shall make the introduction.

MISS BATES

Miss Woodhouse! We've come quite overpowered!

EMMA

Oh, Mrs Bates, Miss Bates, so happy you could co-

MISS BATES

No, we are the happy ones- well, ho do you do Mr Elton? We are the happy
ones. Not only to be here tonight, but also for the beautiful hindquarter
of pork you sent us. It has been heaven itself. What a happy porker it must
have come from! {laugh} We are so obliged for you sending it to us. (To Mrs
Bates) PORK!. (To Emma and Mr Elton) And we're so obliged for you having us
tonight, very much indeed. I was just saying to mother, 'we should be
invited' and indeed we are. Oh, doesn't your hair look pretty? Just like an
angel. (To Mrs Bates) ANGEL, mother. (to Emma and Mr Elton) Oh, speaking of
angels, Mr Elton, your sermon on Daniel in the Lion's Den was so inspiring,
so powerful in all it's particulars, it left us speechless. Quite
speechless, I tell you, and we have not stopped talking of it since. Oh,
isn't this a lovely party? Lovely, lovely, lovely!

(another part of the party)

MR KNIGHTLEY

Where will you live, now that you have completed your education?

HARRIET

Mrs Goddard is being kind enough to let me stay on with her.

MRS GODDARD

She's a great help to me. If you'll excuse me.

EMMA

Mr Knightley!

MR KNIGHTLEY

Ah, Emma. I wondered where you were. Now I see you've been hard at work.
-Making Mr Elton comfortable.

EMMA

Yes, Mr Knightley but I have been remiss in doing the one thing that should
give him the greatest of entitlement. Mr Elton! May I present Miss Smith.

MR ELTON

Any friend of Miss Woodhouse's...

(later)

EMMA

Mr Weston, have you had any news of your son?

MR WESTON

Oh, indeed! Miss Smith. I was married many years ago to a woman whose life
was lost to illness just three years after the birth of our son, Frank. As
I could not see to my buisness and care for the infant, I allowed him to be
brought up by my wife's brother, and his wife, the Churchills. He lives in
London, now a young man, and has never been here. His aunt is not well, and
she does not care to be without him.

MRS WESTON

His coming would be the final blessing for our marriage.

HARRIET

How lucky to have been twice blessed in marriage! It has been my belief
that one loves only once. I am happy to be wrong.

MR WESTON

Not so happy as I, Miss Smith.

MRS WESTON

I had the most pleasing letter from him on the occasion of our marriage. I
have it here if anyone would care to see it.

(later, as the letter filters through the party members)

MISS BATES

A most charming and kindly letter. Don't you think so, mother? (to Mr
Knightley) Have you ever read such a letter, Mr Knightley? Do you know,
this reminds me of Jane's style, somewhat more delicate style. Which is
more usual in a woman, but a good sign in a man, I think.

MR WOODHOUSE

Nicely expressed. But it sounds as though he eats a worrisome amount of
custard!

MRS GODDARD

It's not merely the feeling in it. The penmanship is so confident.

(later)

EMMA

Isn't Miss Smith delightful? I watched her throughout the evening with
continuous pleasure. She is uncertain of her surroundings, yet I though
perhaps I could be of service to her and undertake her introduction into
Highbury society. I could never presume to guide her as you did me, but
perhaps I might share a little of what I know.

MRS WESTON

She could ask for nothing better. Come, Mr Weston, I must write to your
son. Good night, Mr Woodhouse!

MR WESTON

Good night, Mr Woodhouse! Good night, Emma! Thank you for a wonderful
dinner!

MR WOODHOUSE

Good night Miss Taylor!

EMMA

Good night, Mrs Weston! Mr Weston!

MR WESTON

Good night!

MR WOODHOUSE

Poor Miss Taylor. She so obviously wanted to stay.

SCENE 4-HIGHBURY

EMMA

How interesting, Miss Smith. And what kind of people are your parents.

HARRIET

I do not know. Mrs Goddard has said that I cannot know them, and so I have
left it at that. Because of her attentions over the years, Mrs Goddard has
been my true guardian.

EMMA

Hurry along, dear. It's Miss Bates coming. As it is Tuesday, she will have
a letter from her niece Jane Fairfax, and she will want to read us every
word about her.

HARRIET

Oh, I do not know Miss Fairfax!

EMMA

There's not much to be said for her. When pressed, I say she is elegant.

SCENE 5-HIGHBURY

HARRIET

Besides you, and Mrs Goddard, hmm...The only other people I know here are
the Martins, at Abbymill Farm. Mrs Martin had TWO parlors, an oven maid,
and EIGHT cows! Mr Martin used to cut fresh flowers every day.

EMMA

How lucky for Mrs Martin to have such an agreeable husband!

HARRIET

Oh, Miss Woodhouse, Mr Martin is not her husband, he is her son!

EMMA

Ah! I see. Then he is...unmarried.

HARRIET

Mmm, but I cannot understand why. He seems perfect in every particular. He
brought me walnuts once, and went three miles to get them just because he
heard me say I liked them. Wasn't that kind? OH!

(later)

EMMA

Tell me more about Mr Martin. Is he a man of information?

HARRIET

Oh, yes! He reads the agricultural reports, and I recommended he read The
Romance of the Forest, and he said he would.

EMMA

And what sort of looking man is he?

HARRIET

I thought him very plain at first, but I do not think so now. Have you
never seen him when he is in town?

EMMA

Only the Martins are the sort of people with whom I have nothing to do
with. A degree or two lower, and I might be useful to their families. But a
farmer needs none of my help, and is therefore as much above my notice as
he is below it. In fact, whenever-

HARRIET

Miss Woodhouse! There he is now! How do I look?

EMMA

Fine, dear. Good enough I'm sure for Mr Martin.

MR MARTIN

Good day! Well, this is a bit of a chance, isn't it?

HARRIET

Good day, Mr Martin. Miss Woodhouse, may I present Mr Martin? This is Miss
Woodhouse.

MR MARTIN

Good day-How do you do?

HARRIET

Were you able to find The Romance of the Forest?

MR MARTIN

Oh, blast! I forgot, but I'll go again tomorrow, and I will make every
effort to get that thought into my head.

HARRIET

How is your mother?

EMMA (thinking)

Really, Harriet, you can do better than this.

SCENE 6-SEWING AT HARTFIELD

EMMA

If you pull this way, dear, you'll find it makes a neater stitch.

HARRIET

Oh, of course! May I ask what you thought of my friend, Robert Martin?

EMMA

Well, dear, I imagined him a degree nearer gentility.

HARRIET

True, he's not so genteel as Mr Knightley, but-

EMMA

No, there are not one in a hundred men with 'gentleman' written so plainly
across him as Mr Knightley. But let us judge him next to another man, oh,
say...Mr Elton! Mr Elton is a fine man, thoughtful in ways Mr Martin can
never be.

HARRIET

Miss Woodhouse, whatever his faults, Mr Martin is thoughtful.

EMMA

I see. Did he take your advice, and get the book you asked him to read?

HARRIET

Well, no.

EMMA

Yes.

HARRIET

Yes. I wonder that he did not remember it.

EMMA

Oh, well. Mr Elton said something very kind about you the other day.

HARRIET

Can you not tell me what it was?

EMMA

Oh! It's not my place to intrude upon personal matters. But as your friend,
I could make an exception, if you wish. I heard him....

SCENE 7-HIGHBURY CHAPEL

MR ELTON

Miss Smith was always a beautiful creature, but the attractions you have
added are far superior.

EMMA

Oh, I have done very little.

MR ELTON

Were it permissible to contradict a lady.

EMMA

I cannot take credit for her beauty, nor her sweetness, or-

MR ELTON

An idea has just dropped into my head, surely from heaven itself. What if
you were to exercise your artistic talents and draw a portrait of Miss
Smith? Oh, I would love to watch you draw her.

EMMA

Mr Elton, my skills are slender indeed, and we must not forget how shy Miss
Smith is.

MR ELTON

Do you think it would help if I asked her to pose?

SCENE 8-HIGHBURY

MR ELTON

Oh, Miss Woodhouse, may I look, please? I cannot wait another second.
Incredible! You have expressed her completely!

EMMA

Mr Elton, really! You exaggerate!

MR ELTON

Indeed, I do not! Nor cannot!

EMMA

The reason that I have not done a portrait in so long is the spouse of the
subject always complains. As there are no husbands or wives here, I trust I
may proceed safely.

MR ELTON

No husbands or wives at present, Miss Woodhouse.

MR KNIGHTLEY

You've made her too tall.

MR ELTON

It may not be Miss Smith's height in terms of measurement, but it's surely
the height of her character.

(later)

MR WOODHOUSE

My dear, I would paint a shawl on her, as one can't help feeling that she
will catch cold! Otherwise, it is quite splendid. It only wants a suitable
frame. We will have to get it to London.

MR ELTON

Might I be entrusted with such an admission? I would be gratified more than
words can express.

SCENE 9-TOWN OF HIGHBURY

HARRIET

He wants to marry me! Would you mind reading it?

EMMA

Certainly not! I cannot believe Mr Elton proposed! Surely, he is-

HARRIET

No, not Mr Elton, Mr Martin, my friend! Is it a good letter, or
too...short?

EMMA

It is a good letter. One of his sisters must have helped him, yet it is not
in the style of a woman. Well, it is a good letter. You must answer it
immediately. He must have his disappointment, and move on.

HARRIET

Then you think I should refuse him?

EMMA

You did not plan to return an answer favorable to this claim?

HARRIET

No, I did not! That is...I mean...Um...Well, I was not sure, that is why I
came to you!

EMMA

Oh, it's not my place to intrude!

HARRIET

But I depend so on what you think!

EMMA

I would not advise you for the world! If you prefer Mr Martin to every
other person you know or may ever know, if you think him the most agreeable
man you have ever been or ever will be in company with, then why should you
hesitate?

HARRIET

If you will not influence me, then I must do as well as I can by myself. I
am determined to, and I really have almost made up my mind to...refuse...Mr
Martin...? Oh, do you think that's right? Or wrong? Is it wrong?

EMMA

Now that you have decided, I shall share the feelings which I kept you in
suspense of. I think you are perfectly right.

HARRIET

Yes. But-Oh, dear! It will make his mother and sisters most unhappy!

EMMA

Let us think of other mothers and sisters who may be more cheerfully
employed at this moment. I believe Mr Elton is showing your picture to his
mother and sisters, telling them that the subject is more beautiful than
the portrait.

HARRIET

Well, if he shows it, then I'm sure it is only to praise your artistry.

EMMA

If you are sure, then you are surely wrong! By showing it to them, he is
revealing his deeper intentions, which may produce a letter of his own.

SCENE 10-DONWELL ABBEY

MR KNIGHTLEY

Very well, I admit it. You have improved Harriet Smith.

EMMA

I hope you're not the only man to have noticed.

MR KNIGHLTY

I'm not. I believe your friend will soon hear something serious. Something
to her advantage.

EMMA

Who makes you his confidant?

MR KNIGHTLEY

I have reason to believe Harriet Smith will receive an offer of marriage to
a man desperately in love with her. Robert Martin. He came here two
evenings ago to consult about it. He's a tenant, you know, and a good
friend. He asked whether it would be imprudent of him to settle too early,
whether she was too young, or whether he was beneath her.

EMMA

Better question to Mr Martin, I could not have chosen myself.

MR KNIGHTLEY

I never hear better sense from anyone than from Robert Martin. He proved he
can afford to marry, and I say he could not do better.

EMMA

No indeed, he could not. Come, I will tell you something in return. He
wrote to Harriet yesterday.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Oh, yes?

EMMA

Yes. He was refused.

MR KNIGHTLEY

I'm not sure I understand.

EMMA

He asked, and she refused.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Then she is a greater simpleton than I believed.

EMMA

The most incomprehensible thing in the world to a man is a woman who
rejects his offer of marriage.

MR KNIGHTLEY

I do not comprehend it because it is madness. I hope you are wrong.

EMMA

I could not be. I saw her answer.

MR KNIGHTLEY

You saw her answer. Emma, you wrote her answer, didn't you?

EMMA

If I did, then I would have done no wrong. He is not Harriet's equal.

MR KNIGHTLEY

I agree, he is not her equal.

EMMA

Good.

MR KNIGHTLEY

He is her superior in sense and situation. What are Harriet Smith's claims
of birth or education which make her higher than Robert Martin? She is the
natural daughter of nobody-knows-who. The advantage of the match was
entirely on her side.

EMMA

What! A farmer? Even with all his merit and match for my dear friend, it
would be a degradation for her to marry a person whom I could not even
admit as my own acquaintance!

MR KNIGHTLEY

A degradation for illegitimacy and ignorance to marry to a respected,
intelligent farmer?

EMMA

She is a gentleman's daughter.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Whoever her parents, they made no plans to introduce her into good society.
She was left with Mrs Goddard for an indifferent education. Her friends
evidently thought this was good enough for her, and it was, and she thought
so too until you began to puff her up! Vanity working on a weak mind
produces every kind of mischief.

EMMA

Hmm, you dismiss her beauty and good nature, yet I would be very much
mistaken if your sex in general did not think those claims the highest a
woman could possess.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Men of sense, whatever you may say, do not want silly wives! Mark my word,
Emma. Better be without sense than misapply it as you do. Try not to kill
my dogs.

EMMA

We see so differently on this point there can be no use canvassing it, we
shall only make each other angry. Ah! I see the tea is ready. Let's stop
and have some.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Clearly, Emma, you have someone have someone else in mind for your friend,
but if the gentleman you dream of is Mr Elton, your labor is in vain. As
vigor, Elton is unlikely to make an imprudent match, especially to a girl
of obscurity and will bring him disgrace. In unreserved moments, when only
men are present, I have heard him speak of a large family of young ladies
from Bath, who all have twenty thousand pounds apiece. Believe me when I
say he may talk sentimentally, but he will act rationally.

EMMA

If I had my heart set on Mr Elton, then your 'opening my eyes' would have
been a kind service, but I care only to watch her grow, and-

MR KNIGHTLEY

No more, please. No more.

SCENE 11-HARTFIELD

MR ELTON

Bravo

(later)

EMMA

Thank you, Charles. Mr Elton. Harriet is collecting riddles for a book, and
we knew you would come up with something cunning.

MR ELTON

Oh, no, no, no. I'm not nearly clever enough.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Emma, you didn't ask me to contribute a riddle.

EMMA

Your entire personality is a riddle, Mr Knightley. I thought you were
overqualified.

SCENE 12-HIGHBURY

EMMA

Woah, stand. Morning, Peter! This just came from Mr Elton. He claims it is
a riddle for your collection, but I think it is much better!

HARRIET

Is it about sharks?

EMMA

For heaven's sake, why would he write a riddle about sharks?

HARRIET

Please, I'm in a tremor, tell me what it means!

EMMA

We may read it aloud so that we may decipher it. "For Miss" I think we can
safely put in 'Smith'. "Line 1: My first displays the wealth and pomp of
kings, lords of the earth, their luxury and ease." That can be displayed
as...pomp in (prompting Harriet)...court.

HARRIET

Court, yes.

EMMA

"Next Line: Another view of man, my second brings, behold him there, the
monarch of the seas." That is...?

HARRIET

A mermaid! A trident? Oh, do you think we shall ever know?

EMMA

Ship, dear, the thing that brings...Ship.

HARRIET

Ship...!

EMMA

Now for the cream. "But are united." The two terms should be united!

HARRIET

Yes...It's ship and court, court and-...Courtship! He writes to me about
courtship! Oh!

EMMA

Harriet! There can be no doubt of Mr Elton's intentions! You are his
desire! The only thing remaining is for him to find the perfect opportunity
to offer proof! We must find a way for the two of you to be alone!

HARRIET

Oh, let's read it again and again!

EMMA

I only wish Mr Knightley would walk by so that he could read it.

SCENE 13-CLARK'S

EMMA

Good afternoon!

MRS CLARK

Good day, Miss Woodhouse

EMMA

Mrs Clark, how are you?

MRS CLARK

Mustn't grumble.

SCENE 14-ROAD TO HIGHBURY

HARRIET

I'm sorry I was not more help. I'm always afraid I will somehow make a sick
person worse.

EMMA

Not at all! Look, Harriet! Mr Elton's house. Pity I cannot contrive a
reason for us to go in.

HARRIET

I do so wonder, Miss Woodhouse, that you are not married.

EMMA

I have no inducements to marry. I lack neither fortune, nor position, and
never could I be so important in a man's eyes as I am in my father's.

HARRIET

But to be an old maid, like Miss Bates...

EMMA

She is a poor old maid, and it is only poverty which makes celibacy
contemptible. A single woman of good fortune is always respectable. Mr
Elton!

MR ELTON

Miss Woodhouse! Miss Smith! How fortunate! I was just on my way to visit
the Clarks'.

EMMA

Ah! We were just there. Harriet was kind enough to let me join her.

HARRIET

Miss Woodhouse-

MR ELTON

Um, may I escort you home?

EMMA

Indeed! Harriet, tell Mr Elton what we did at the Clarks'.

HARRIET

Oh, um...She seemed to have the chills, so Miss Woodhouse-

EMMA

-watched. As Harriet tucked that poor lady in, warmed her with a blanket in
her kind nature. Tell her about the soup, dear.

HARRIET

The soup? I couldn't really say...

MR ELTON

Don't be so modest.

HARRIET

Well, I heated some, uh...

MR ELTON

Soup?

HARRIET

Yes, soup...-

EMMA

Oh, dear! Oh! My lace. Please have the goodness to go on, and I will rejoin
you as soon as I can.

HARRIET

After heating the soup, I put her by the...um...

MR ELTON

Chair?

HARRIET

The fire.

MR ELTON

The fire.

EMMA

Hello! Where are you off to?

BOY

To get my mom some broth.

EMMA

Would you let me walk with you? Dear, must we walk so quickly?

BOY

Mom said I should hurry.

EMMA

Would you like to play a game?

HARRIET

Do you mean it?

MR ELTON

I do. I swear I do.

HARRIET

Oh, that's too wonderful!

MR ELTON

I love-

EMMA (thinking)

Could this be? The declaration?

MR ELTON

I simply love celery root. And what should they be serving but-

MR ELTON AND HARRIET

Celery root!

SCENE 15-HARTFIELD

MR WOODHOUSE

Emma! Be careful! The baby-it might have an infection...

MR KNIGHTLEY

John, this may be the finest Knightley yet. You and Isabella should have
brought her sooner. She looks so fetching in the arms of her aunt!

MR JOHN KNIGHTLEY

Yes, don't they make a splendid pair?

MR KNIGHTLEY

If you accepted adults with as little whim as you do these children, we
might always agree!

EMMA

How fascinating that any discordancy between us must always arise from my
being wrong.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Not fascinating, but true. Perhaps it has something to do with the gap in
our ages. I was sixteen years old when you were born.

EMMA

Undoubtedly you were my superior then, but hasn't the lapse of 21 years
closed the gap?

MR KNIGHTLEY

Narrowed it. Come, dear, let us be friends and quarrel no more.

EMMA

Very well. And might I say that we were both right as far as good
intentions went. I only hope Mr Martin was not too disappointed.

MR KNIGHTLEY

No man could be more so.

EMMA

I am very sorry. Come, shake hands with me.

BUTLER

Dinner is served.

MR WOODHOUSE

Good. John?

ISABELLA

Sister, dear? When shall we meet your new friend?

EMMA

She will be with us on Friday at the Weston's Christmas Eve Party. It looks
as though to be a very rewarding holiday for her.

SCENE 16-CARRIAGE RIDE TOWARDS RANDALL

MR ELTON

I am so looking forward to this evening. A party is a party, but a
Christmas Party! Where is Miss Smith?

EMMA

I have some sad news. Miss Smith is ill and cannot be with us this evening.

MR ELTON

A sad loss to our party. She will be missed at every moment. However, I
feel, and I hope you will concur, that small parties are the best. I would
rather fall short by two than exceed by two. And how fortunate that the
snow comes now instead of yesterday, when it would have made our party
impossible! Now, THAT would have been a real cause for sadness, would it
not?

SCENE 17-CHRISTMAS PARTY AT RANDALL

MRS WESTON

Would you like some punch?

MR ELTON

No, no, not right now.

MR WOODHOUSE

Oh, thank you, thank you, yes. Weather of this severity is no friend of
mine.

MRS WESTON

I know that too well, Mr Woodhouse.

MR WESTON

My son Frank has written and told us something most exciting.

MR ELTON

Miss Woodhouse, are you warm enough?

EMMA

Yes, thank you.

MR WESTON

The letter arrived today, and on the opening, we had the most wonderful
surprise. Frank said-

MR ELTON

Some of the other ladies were saying they were not warm enough.

EMMA

I am quite comfortable, yes.

MR ELTON

Then I saw how close you were to the fire, and thought you might be too
warm, and-

EMMA

Mr Elton! I am in the perfect state of warmness.

MR WESTON

At first I did not believe it, so I asked Mrs Weston to read the letter
herself, to make sure I was not dreaming. But indeed Frank said-

MR ELTON

Miss Woodhouse, is there any effort I might make on behalf of your father's
comfort?

EMMA

You are very kind, but I can only imagine that he's quite comfortable.
Thank you for being so thoughtful.

MR ELTON

No, thank you for thinking I am thoughtful.

EMMA

I wondered if perhaps you might be so kind as to bring me some punch.

MR ELTON

I only hope I can complete the task quickly enough-

EMMA

Please! I could not enjoy it if I knew that you hurried!

ISABELLA

Thrilling! Simply thrilling news!

MR WESTON

And that was the end of the letter.

(later, at dinner)

MR WESTON

Emma! I wasn't sure I had your attention earlier, but I wanted to tell you
that Frank is coming at last!

EMMA

I so look forward to meeting him! That is if you can bear to share him.

MRS WESTON

That is if his aunt will share him with us. That's what this depends on.
She has said yes, but has not given a date.

MR WOODHOUSE

Very good. This weather is by no means pleasant for the traveler abroad.

(later, around the fire)

MR ELTON

I hope I'm not intruding.

MR KNIGHTLEY

No, no.

MR ELTON

But I cannot stop thinking of Miss Smith's condition.

EMMA

She will be happy to know of your concern.

MR ELTON

How could I not be concerned? The whole situation is most alarming! There
is nothing worse than a sore throat. Its effects are exceedingly bleak. And
that is why I must, in the presence of your friend, ask you to stop
visiting her!

EMMA

What?

MR ELTON

You are putting yourself at risk, and we cannot allow that, can we
Knightley? I mean, is this fair?

ISABELLA

Father!

MR ELTON

Have I not some right to complain?

MR JOHN KNIGHTLEY

Emma, the weather's distressing your father and he wants to leave. Isabella
and I will take him home now in our carriage. Will you...?

MR ELTON

Not to worry, sir. I will ensure that your sister is safe.

MRS WESTON

Come Mr Woodhouse. Let's wrap you up warmly.

SCENE 18-CARRIAGE TO HARTFIELD

EMMA

Certainly the weather-

MR ELTON

Miss Woodhouse, please! Fate has left us alone for a reason!

EMMA

What? What are you...? Release my hand!

MR ELTON

I do not so much as seize your hand so much as the opportunity to-

EMMA

Good heavens. Go back!

MR ELTON

Please! I am hoping...fearing...ready to die if you refuse me. Surely my
odd and attachment to you, my love and passion cannot help to make an
impression

EMMA

Mr Elton! This is I, Miss Woodhouse! The party spirit has confused you!
I'll be happy to deliver your message to Miss Smith, but you must direct no
more of it to me.

MR ELTON

Miss Smith? What sort of message would I want to send to her? Miss Smith?!

EMMA

Mr Elton, the wine has weakened you, for you to--

MR ELTON

If the wine has had any effect, it has only strengthened my will to tell
you that I love you! And-

EMMA

My astonishment is beyond anything I can express. For you to address me in
this manner, after your behaviour to Miss Smith, is--

MR ELTON

I never cared whether Miss Smith were dead or alive except she was your
friend. Who can think of Miss Smith when Miss Woodhouse is near?

EMMA

Oh, no!

MR ELTON

Everything I have ever done was to prove my adoration for you. Why else
would I go to London to have your picture framed?

EMMA

Oh, no...

MR ELTON

Allow me to--! Allow me to interpret the silence. You have long understood
me.

EMMA

I said back, and kindly refrain from the intimacy of whispering. Am I to
understand that you never sought to recommend yourself to Miss Smith?

MR ELTON

How can you be surprised? Did you not understand the riddle I wrote?

EMMA

That was for Harriet!

MR ELTON

I most obviously did not address it to her and left it at your home!

EMMA

But--oh...But--

MR ELTON

She's a very good sort of girl, and I'm sure there are men who would not
object to...Everybody has their level. But I am need so totally despair of
an equal alliance as to address myself to Miss Smith...

EMMA

Sir!

MR ELTON

No! I sought to recommend myself to YOU with those visits.

EMMA

Sir...I have seen you only as the admirer of my friend.

MR ELTON

I cannot believe that!

EMMA

It is well to the mistake--

MR ELTON

It is her mistake

EMMA

It is mine as well.

MR ELTON

She will manage her disappointment, leave her out of it. How do you feel
about what I've said?

EMMA

Mr Elton, any hopes I had with regard to you were for Harriet and Harriet
alone.

SCENE 19-RANDALL

MRS WESTON

My dear child! What is it?

EMMA

Miss Taylor! ...Mrs Weston! There has been an overthrow of everything I
have been wishing for for Harriet and Mr Elton, a development most
unwelcome, most painful. Oh, dear. You will not believe it, but, Mr Elton,
now prepare yourself, but, Mr Elton is--

MRS WESTON

Mr Elton is in love with you...?

EMMA

You knew?

MRS WESTON

I had my suspicions, but the party confirmed it.

EMMA

The worst of it is that I persuaded her to care for him! Had I not done
that, I could bear anything, but it was I and I alone! Even Mr Knightley
warned me.

MRS WESTON

Mr Knightley?

EMMA

He was very cross because I had urged Harriet to reject a proposal from
Robert Martin.

MRS WESTON

That nice farmer?

EMMA

At least there I was right! Well done, Emma! But otherwise I have made a
dreadful mistake. I sought to bring two people together, and I shall never
do it again! Never! That poor girl...

MRS WESTON

She'll recover. She's young.

EMMA

I wish I could ease the pain of this fall, but I have no idea who might be
right for her. William Cox?

MRS WESTON

Emma!

EMMA

Too pert?

MRS WESTON

My dear, you said you would never try to match anyone again.

EMMA

Yes. Indeed. I just wish there was some way to soften the news when I tell
her.

MRS WESTON

I'm afraid the best way is always the most straightforward.

EMMA

Yes. I suppose I will just say, 'Harriet!'--

SCENE 20-HARTFIELD

EMMA

I have some news about Mr Elton. He has had to leave town.

HARRIET

Why?

EMMA

In his letter to father, he wrote that he was going to Bath to relax and to
meet new people. And this brings me to something most unpleasant.

HARRIET

Oh, Miss Woodhouse, nothing you say could ever be unpleasant.

EMMA

This is full. I must acknowledge myself grossly mistaken on the one subject
that has occupied us for some time past.

HARRIET

Mr Elton?

EMMA

While expressing his fervent admiration for you as a person, it is
unhappily I who have captured his fancy. Naturally I do not return his
feelings, but that does not make it any less of an embarrassment and I
place the responsibility for this directly on my own shoulders.

HARRIET

Oh, no! I have always felt that I did not deserve Mr Elton's affections. So
I cannot blame him for believing the same. I could never blame you, who
have been so kind a friend that I could never dream it possible.

EMMA

Harriet, I had always hoped that I might have something to teach you. Now I
see that I shall be lucky to resemble you in any small way.

SCENE 21-PUPPY FARM

EMMA

They have just been weaned! I thought that you might enjoy them. They
cannot help but lift the spirits.

HARRIET

Do you suppose that Mr Elton is meeting young ladies while he's away?

EMMA

I do not know. Feel her paws.

HARRIET

I would not blame him. I wonder when he will return.

EMMA

Dear, you must try to empty your mind of Mr Elton. Really.

HARRIET

Oh, I'm sorry. It was kind of you to invite me!

EMMA

Look at her eyes!

HARRIET

Mr Elton had brown eyes too!

EMMA

Oh! Harriet, there is only one place that I can think of where you will not
be able to speak of Mr Elton. Indeed you may not be able to speak at all!

SCENE 22-BATES' HOUSE

MISS BATES

Oh, Miss Woodhouse, what a special, special treat! It was so lovely to you
to come and visit us. Isn't it mother! TREAT! And the best of it is, the
best of i-i-it is that we were just speaking of a topic that would interest
you both.

EMMA (thinking)

Please, do not let it be a letter from that ninny Jane Fairfax!

MISS BATES

Yes, here it is. It is a letter from Mrs Cole, who has news of Mr Elton!
Yes, here we are. 'He has been the toast of every young ladies eye!' Well
of course, that can be no surprise to any of us! Oh, dear. Miss Smith, you
look pale! You must be hungry! Let me get you some cake! Wasn't it nice for
them to visit us mother? The most amazing thing just happened. Mother was
asking about Jane Fairfax, asking if there was any news from her, even
though she knew it was not Jane's day for writing. Remember, mother, not,
JANE'S DAY! Oh, napkins, sorry. You see, we always have a letter from Jane
on Tuesday, and today as you must know is Thursday! So I said, 'Mother we
have had a letter from Jane this very morning!' And she said, 'But it's
Thursday! For you see Jane writes on Tuesday and this is Thursday! And I
said, 'Upon my honor!' Here you are, Miss Smi--oh, napkins, sorry! Here you
are.

EMMA

And might you summarize the letter in your own delightful words?

MISS BATES

Oh, would you like the pleasure of hearing it, Miss Woodhouse, as only Jane
can put things, upon my honor I would not. Um, where's that letter, yes
here it. Yes, the bad news is she has a cold.

EMMA

Oh, no!

MISS BATES

Oh, yes, but the good news far outweighs it, far far far! She is coming to
visit and you must be here to help us with here Miss Woodhouse, because it
wouldn't be a proper visit otherwise. You must sit right where you are, and
you must say--

SCENE 23-BATES' HOUSE

EMMA

We are so glad to have you with us! How were you able to get away?

JANE

Well the Cambells have gone to Ireland on a holiday, so I've come here,
which is better than any holiday.

EMMA (thinking)

Hmm. She is more giving than I expected.

MISS BATES

Tell Miss Woodhouse whom you saw in Wayworth! Frank Churchill, that's who,
Mr Frank Churchill!

EMMA

Oh, I hear much of him, but have never seen him! Was he handsome?

JANE

Many say he is.

EMMA

Was he agreeable?

JANE

He was in no way disagreeable.

EMMA

Was he a man of information?

JANE

All his statements seem correct.

EMMA (thinking)

I take it back. She is--

SCENE 24-HARTFIELD

EMMA

--absolutely impossible! She wouldn't tell me anything about Frank
Churchill!

MR KNIGHTLEY

Why should you care so much about Frank Churchill?

EMMA

I was merely being sociable, that's all, and she was not.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Perhaps you dislike her because divides our attentions from you!

EMMA

Ha! Really, Mr Knightley, you are so comical, you ought to perform in the
Town Square.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Oh, I have some news! And I know how much you like news.

EMMA

Ah, yes, I always like news.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Mr Elton is going to marry.

EMMA

I don't know what to say, except that I'm...--

SCENE 25-HARTFIELD AND FORDS'

HARRIET

--in a state of complete shock!

EMMA

You've heard?

HARRIET

About what?

EMMA

Oh! Never mind.

HARRIET (narrating)

I was on my way here for our visit. It started raining, so I ducked into
Fords to wait it out.

HARRIET (speaking) Good day, Mr Ford, Mr Ford.

HARRIET (narrating) As I admired some fabric, who should come in but
Elizabeth Martin, and her brother! Oh, I thought I should have fainted!
They saw me, and began whispering, then, oh, Miss Woodhouse, I could not
believe this, she came up to me and spoke! She said:

ELIZABETH MARTIN

I'm sorry we never meet now.

HARRIET (narrating)

And I said:

HARRIET (speaking)

Oh, you're too kind.

HARRIET (narrating)

Then, I saw that Mr Martin, my Mr Martin was coming toward me!

HARRIET AND MR MARTIN TOGETHER

Good day, (Mr Martin/Miss Smith)

MR MARTIN

I managed to read The Romance of the Forest. It was very good.

HARRIET (narrating)

Finally I said that I had to go, but then he followed me! I was not three
steps outside, and he said:

MR MARTIN

Miss Smith! You'd better go by Mr Cole's Stable. The near way's flooded.

HARRIET (speaking)

Thank you.

HARRIET

Oh, Miss Woodhouse, do talk and make me comfortable again!

EMMA (thinking)

I suppose this would not be the right time to mention that Mr Elton was
engaged.

EMMA

This was awkward because it was the first time you've seen Mr Martin since
rejecting his proposal. You, and I must say he, behaved very well. Now, the
kindest thing you can do for yourself is to put Mr Martin out of your head
for good.

HARRIET

Yes. I will. I will do so immediately. He's behind me now.

EMMA

Wonderful! I thought I might sketch the puppies, would you join me?

HARRIET

Oh, yes please! It was awfully kind of him to warn me about the flooding.

EMMA

Yes, dear.

HARRIET

He got his coat wet to tell me. That's the coat Mrs Martin gave him for his
birthday! I do hope he does not catch cold!

SCENE 26-ROAD TO RANDALL

EMMA

OH! Oh, good heavens!

FRANK

Is your horse just washing his feet, or are the darker forces at work here?

EMMA

The latter, I'm afraid. Something has happened to the wheel and I cannot
move.

FRANK

Well, you'll just have to live here then. Bye. I suppose that won't do.
I'll help you home.

EMMA

Thank you so much, Mr...?

FRANK

Churchill. Frank Churchill.

EMMA

A name I know as well as my own, so long I have heard it spoken. Your
father's wife was my governess.

FRANK

Then you are Miss Woodhouse! How delightful! I hear of nothing but you!

EMMA

The last I heard is from Mrs Weston is that you were not due until
tomorrow.

FRANK

It is always a pleasure to come in on one's friends before the lookout
begins. I would not presume to do so in most cases, but I felt in coming
home I might be forgiven.

EMMA

Then you have not seen them? We shall have to go there first. They will be
overjoyed.

FRANK

Overjoyed, I think, that we are both there together. As I am.

SCENE 27-HIGHBURY

MISS BATES

Oh, Miss Woodhouse! Have you heard? Frank Churchill is here!

EMMA

Yes! In fact, I met him yesterday!

MISS BATES

NO!

EMMA

Yes!

MISS BATES

Oh!

EMMA

He did me quite a service when my horse--

MISS BATES

Is he handsome? Is he everything everyone says he is? I have not seen him
myself, though Jane saw him, and she said that he was not at all
'unpleasant to look at'. I suppose I shan't see him until the Coles' party,
but that seems like such an age from now. But I'm sure, simply sure that
we'll be upon his wall. Well, we are sufficiently prepared!

SCENE 28-HARTFIELD

EMMA

Has an invitation arrived for a party at the Coles?

MR WOODHOUSE

No, thank heaven! The Coles are nice people, but we should have to go
outside to get there!

EMMA

Of course we would have to decline as they ask...but I don't wish them to
outthwart me...

(later)

MR WOODHOUSE

Has James brought the letters?

EMMA

I don't know, I don't pay any attention to the mail.

(later)

EMMA

Why do they not write? Perhaps they must know I must reject them. Still as
close friends of the Westons they should have the courtesy to extend the
invitation. Unless they don't want me! But I cannot--

SCENE 29--COLES' PARTY

EMMA

--tell you how delighted I am to have been invited, Mrs Cole!

FRANK

Isn't it handsome?

MRS COLE

Thank you. But as of today, there's a much prettier one in town. It has
been sent to Jane Fairfax.

FRANK

Really? And who sent it to her?

MRS COLE

That's the exciting part! There was no identification of the donor.

MR WESTON

Must be from Colonel Campbell!

MRS COLE

Jane's parents died, and the Bates of course are quite without the
resources to...And Colonel Campbell was a great friend of her fathers, so
he and his family have raised her.

FRANK

Well, then they must have sent it.

MRS COLE

Jane has just had a letter from them and not a word was said of it.

FRANK

Well, perhaps it's a surprise.

EMMA

Why do you smile?

FRANK

I'm smiling because I'm wondering if there's anyone else whom we should
suspect of being Miss Fairfax's musical patron. Do you know her?

EMMA

Yes, she's very...elegant...yes...

FRANK

Colonel Campbell's daughter Mrs Dickson was Miss Fairfax's dearest friend,
so perhaps Mrs Dickson sent the piano.

EMMA

Mrs Dickson? That makes sense.

FRANK

But not as much sense do you think as Mr Dickson. I cannot help suspecting
that after his proposal to Miss Campbell, a sweet, but rather a plain girl,
Mr Dickson fell in love with Miss Fairfax, who is after all...

EMMA

Very elegant, yes, but what makes you say that?

FRANK

Well, she must think so too! That is why she did not go on the holiday with
the Cambells. Instead she came here...Do you see? Now that Mr Dickson has
married into the Cambells he would have been there. I think, by coming
here, Miss Fairfax was telling Mr Dickson that she wanted to forget him,
and I think, with the pianoforte, Mr Dickson wasn't allowing it! Of course
it's just a theory, let us see how she reacts if we say the name 'Mr
Dickson'.

(later)

MRS WESTON

My dear, do you know how Miss Bates and Jane Fairfax came here tonight? Mr
Knightley sent his carriage!

EMMA

Yes, he's very kind!

MRS WESTON

You give him credit for more disinterested benevolence than I. A suspicion
has started into my head which I simply cannot get rid of! Mr Knightley and
Jane Fairfax are a couple!

EMMA

Mrs Weston, do not take to matchmaking, you do it ill! Jane Fairfax and Mr
Knightley? Every feeling revolts!

MRS WESTON

Oh, my goodness! What if the pianoforte is from Mr Knightley?

EMMA

You have taken up an idea and run wild with it. He is not even with her!
She is with Frank, poor man.

MRS WESTON

Perhaps they stay apart publicly to keep it a secret!

EMMA

Hush friend. Here comes--Mr Cole!

MR COLE

Miss Woodhouse, would you do us the honor of trying our pianoforte?

EMMA

Oh, I fear I lack the talent.

MR COLE

Oh, perhaps I should ask Miss Fairfax.

(later)

EMMA (singing)

Did you not hear my lady

Go down the garden singing

Blackbird and thrush lie silent

To hear the alleys ringing

Oh saw you not my lady

Out in the garden there

Shaming the rose and lilies

For she is twice as fair

Though-

FRANK (taking over)

Though I am nothing to her

Though she must rarely look at me

And though I could never woo her

I love her 'til I die

FRANK AND EMMA (singing)

Surely you heard my lady

Go down the garden singing

Silencing all the songbirds

And setting the alleys ringing

But surely you see my lady

Out in the garden there

Rivaling the glittering sunshine

With her glory of golden hair

FRANK

Excuse me. Do you know that piece?

JANE

Oh, yes.

(Jane and Frank sing together)

MR KNIGHTLEY

Doesn't she play marvelously?

EMMA

Yes. How sweet to have lent your carriage so that her fingers would be warm
enough for the performance.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Your playing was lovely!

EMMA

Much less than the effect of Miss Fairfax's?

MR KNIGHTLEY

No! It was ...very...elegant.

EMMA

Was that not sweet of the Cambells to give her so generous a gift?

MR KNIGHTLEY

I never approve of surprises. The pleasure is never enhanced, and the
inconvenience is considerable. Bad judgement on the Campbell's part.

FRANK

Miss Fairfax, shall we sing another?

MR KNIGHTLEY

That fellow thinks of nothing but showing off. Jane will sing herself
hoarse. Miss Bates!

MISS BATES

Yes, Mr Knightley?

MR KNIGHTLEY

You must put a stop to this! She'll make herself ill!

MISS BATES

Oh, do you think so? Oh, well I shall!

SCENE 30-HARTFIELD

FRANK

Miss Woodhouse, you must forgive my intrusion, but my aunt has become
ill-it is nothing serious, but my presence might bring her solace,
therefore I must return, and although I expect my father at any moment, I
could not leave without stopping here.

EMMA

Oh! Not even five minutes to spare for your friends Miss Fairfax and Miss
Bates, how unlucky!

FRANK

Oh, no, I stopped there on my way here! After all their kindness, I don't
wish to slight them! But it is not the Bates, nor my aunt that occupies my
thoughts as I prepare to leave. There is something much more personal that
I must say to you. I think that you can hardly be without suspicion that I
have developed certain feelings for someone of a most tender and devoted
nature, which so far I have striven to hide. Yet you have always made me
feel so wonderfully at ease, such a friend, since very arrival that in no
longer seems honorable to keep them from you. In short, Miss Woodhouse, I--

BUTLER

Mr Weston.

FRANK

Mrs Weston has promised to correspond, the blessings of a female
correspondent when one wants news. In her letters I shall be at Highbury,
and here again, with you.

SCENE 31-HARTFIELD, EMMA'S ROOM

EMMA

Well, he loves me! He was on the verge of telling me when his father burst
in. I felt listless after he left and had some sort of headache, so I must
be in love as well. I must confess I expected love to feel something
different than this. I may determine how deep a love I feel through his
absence. How I wish he would be here tomorrow, for there is a grim job to
be done. Mr Elton is bringing his new wife to tea.

SCENE 32-HARTFIELD

MRS ELTON

You know, your home reminds me of Maple Grove, which is the seed of my
brother, Mr Sutling.

MR ELTON

Sutling.

MRS ELTON

The hall, the size of the room, I'm really quite struck by it! I almost
fancy myself here!

EMMA

I'm glad you can feel so at ease.

MRS ELTON (cutting off Mr Elton's mumbling)

Oh, my brother and sister will be enchanted with this place. People who
have extensive grounds are always pleased to meet other people with
extensive grounds.

EMMA

I'm afraid you overrate Hartfield. Soria is full of beauties.

MRS ELTON (cutting off Mr Elton's mumbling)

Don't tell me about Soria! I always say it is the garden of England!

EMMA

Yes, but many counties are called that.

MRS ELTON

Oh? I fancy not. I never heard any county but Soria called so.

EMMA

Well, I know little of other places. We're a quiet set of people, more
disposed to stay at home.

MRS ELTON

Yes, your father's health must be a great drawback to your seeing the
country. Why does he not try bath? It would do him the world of good!

EMMA

He has tried it before without any benefit.

MRS ELTON

No! It will do him good, if only to improve his spirits, which, I
understand, are sometimes much depressed! You must take him! A line from
me, and you will have some of the best society in the place! A particular
friend there, Mrs Paltry, --

EMMA

I'm afraid going to Bath would be out of the question

(later)

EMMA

Mrs Elton! I did not ask if you were musical and that is because your
reputation has preceded you. All the town knows that you are a superior
performer.

MRS ELTON (cutting off Mr Elton's mumbling)

Well, I am dotingly fond of music, and my friends say I'm not entirely
devoid of taste! In fact, I told Mr E., when he asked me to marry, I told
him that I did not have to have two carriages, as I did before, and I could
even accept a smaller house! My house was a good deal roomier, I assure
you. But no! The world is not necessary to me because I am blessed with so
many resources in here! But, said I, without music, my life would be a
blank. In fact, you and I must establish a musical club, and we could have
regular meetings at your house or ours, because I don't want to give up my
talent, do I?

EMMA

Mrs Elton, I'm sure it would take something more dramatic as a change of
town to dislodge as great as your talent.

MRS ELTON

Oh, well, I myself don't call it great! I just know that my friends think
so. (pause) Oh! We met the Westons. He is already a favorite with me! And I
was astonished that she was so ladylike! Was she not your governess?

EMMA

Mrs Weston's modest propriety makes her a model for any woman.

MRS ELTON (cutting off Mr Elton's mumbling)

And do you know who came in while we were there?

EMMA

I cannot imagine!

MRS ELTON

Knightley.

EMMA

Knightley?

MRS ELTON

Knightley! Ah, Mr E's friend! Well, there's one friend with whom you need
not be ashamed! Quite the gentleman!

EMMA (thinking)

Knightley?

SCENE 33-HIGHBURY

EMMA

Never seen him before and she called him Knightley!

HARRIET

I saw her at church and she seemed-

EMMA

Vulgar? Base? Conceited? Crass? How do you do Mrs Star?

MRS STAR

Good Morning, Miss Woodhouse!

EMMA

She actually seemed pleased to discover that Mr Knightley was gentleman! I
doubt he'll return the compliment and find her a lady! Mr Simons!

MR SIMONS

Good Morning, Miss Woodhouse.

EMMA

Good morning! She proposed that we formed a musical club! Is it possible
that Mr Elton met her while doing charitable work in a mental infirmary?
There is only one thing to do with a person as impossible as she.

HARRIET

What?

EMMA

I must throw a party for her! Otherwise everyone will feel at once how much
I dislike her.

SCENE 34-HIGHBURY CHAPEL

MRS ELTON

We're so excited about the party! Do you know who I just adore, who I want
to wrap up and put in my pocket?

EMMA

Knightley?

MRS ELTON

Jane Fairfax! I rave about her! Do you know what I admire most about her?
She's timid. I'm a great advocate of timidity. But I daresay you know the
lines of the poet.

For many a flower

Is born to blush unseen.

We cannot allow them to be verified by sweet Jane!

EMMA

There is no danger of that! The Cambells take great care of her.

MRS ELTON

Whatever advantage she got from the Cambells have palpably come to an end,
but if you and I set an example, many will follow. We live in a style which
could not make the addition of Jane Fairfax the least inconvenient. I am
simply going to adopt her, and I think that you should do it with me.

SCENE 35-RANDALL

EMMA

For the first time in my life, I felt sorry for Jane Fairfax. Whatever she
may have done, she does not deserve Mrs Elton.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Jane may be glad of Mrs Elton's attentions since they are available to no
one else.

EMMA

She seems to receive ample attention from you.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Anyone may know my regard for her.

EMMA

Oh? Do you know her higheties?

MR KNIGHTLEY

Oh, so you two have been settling that I should marry Jane Fairfax?

EMMA

No! You could not come and sit with us if you were married.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Jane Fairfax is a very charming young woman, but she lacks an open temper
which a man wishes for in a wife. I have admiration for her, but no thought
beyond. Not at all. None. No. Ah, I see Mr Weston is at home. I'll go and
see him.

EMMA

Well, Mrs Weston, what do you say about your suspicions now?

MRS WESTON

He seemed very occupied with his not being in love with her. It seems
certain that he is!

SCENE 36-HARTFIELD

MR KNIGHTLEY

It was most kind of you to invite Jane Fairfax this evening.

EMMA

Your words the other day shamed me. I have not tried as I should have.

MR KNIGHTLEY

You are capable of great kindness.

EMMA

I fall short so often, and I highly doubt she will find this a kindness.

MRS ELTON

Jane! You're a very, very fragile creature! You pay no regard of the
delicacies of you constitution! Jane...Knightley! Help us! Knightley! Jane
went to the post office today in the rain! A great peril to her health!
This was a sign that I was not there to take care of you! Knightley, tell
her! Tell her!

MR KNIGHTLEY

I'm sure she knows what she can endure, Mrs Elton! But of course. Do take
care of yourself.

JANE

Thank you.

(later, at dinner)

BUTLER

Mr Weston

MR WOODHOUSE

Ah! We had quite given you up! I'm afraid we had to start without you!

MR WESTON

Oh, forgive me, Mr Woodhouse, Emma, no please. The journey was especially
slow, or perhaps it just seemed so, as I have some good news that I was
eager to share. Frank's aunt is on the mend, and Frank is taking a house in
Highbury!

MR WOODHOUSE

Good news indeed!

MRS ELTON

Well, well, well, I shall have to do something with Mr E to welcome him,
hey, Mr E? (cutting off Mr Elton) Highbury's a little different since he
left. There's been an addition, if I may presume to call myself an
addition. Personally I wouldn't, as you know I'm just quoting other people,
but I think Mr Frank Churchill will find one or two small changes in the
vicinity since he last came to visit his dear father!

SCENE 37-HARTFIELD, EMMA'S ROOM

EMMA (writing in her diary w/ voiceover)

Frank Churchill. I must own that I am not in love with Frank. I have not
thought of him at all except for the mention Harriet made of him the other
day.

EMMA (speaking)

Harriet! And Frank! Oh, wouldn't that be charming!

EMMA (thinking)

It would so relieve me to know that Harriet was well taken care of. Perhaps
I could bring them together at the ball! Lucky the man who exchanges Emma
for Harriet!

SCENE 38-DONWELL ABBEY

MR KNIGHTLEY

I can think of nothing less appealing than an evening of watching other
people dance. Go on.

EMMA

Well, then you shall have do dance yourself!

MR KNIGHTLEY

I have no taste for it. I'd rather fetch that stick.

EMMA

I'll try to remember to bring it to the ball.

MR KNIGHTLEY

I just want to stay here where it's cozy.

SCENE 39-WESTON BALL

FRANK

Miss Woodhouse!

EMMA

Mr Churchill! I came early to see if I could be of service to your father.

FRANK

Actually, you're late! The whole party is here to help my father prepare
for the party.

EMMA

Are you waiting for someone?

FRANK

Oh, Mrs Elton!

EMMA

Mrs Elton? Why ever for?

FRANK

I hear much of her. She is bringing Jane Fairfax in her carriage, so
perhaps we may finally ask Jane Fairfax about Mr Dickson. Or have you
acquired the courage in my absence? Oh, is that they? Do excuse me

EMMA

Frank just told me the most fascinating thing.

MRS WESTON

Tell me.

EMMA

He's heard about Mrs Elton and he still wants to meet her!

MISS BATES

I always say, always, that there is no place where the people are as nice
as in Highbury. We were not two steps out of the carriage, not two, well,
it was possibly less, when Frank Churchill came bounding up! He was
bounding, I tell you, to see if we needed any assistance! He is so
obliging! Oh, Mr Churchill! I was just telling Miss Woodhouse and Mrs
Weston how obliging you are! I shall never forget your kindness, not as
long as I live. Nor to mother, since you replaced the rivet in her
spectacles, not only have they been as good as new, they have been better.
Oh, isn't this room just like a fairyland? How do you like Jane's hair? She
did it herself! Oh, look, there are the Hearses! I must go and say hello!

EMMA

Harriet is all alone.

MRS WESTON

Do you not dance, Mr Elton?

MR ELTON

Most readily, Mrs Weston if you will be my partner.

MRS WESTON

Oh, dear me, I'm no dancer, let me find a better partner for you.

MR ELTON

Though I am an old married man, I would enjoy dancing with Mrs Gilbert.

MRS WESTON

Mrs Gilbert told me she does not mean to dance this evening, but I do see a
young lady whom I should like to see dancing. Miss Smith.

MR ELTON

Miss Smith. I had not observed her there. Well, you are most obliging to
have pointed her out to me, and were I not an old married man, I should
gladly do the job, but my dancing days are over.

(later)

EMMA

I can only say that at the moment you took good to the form I was glad to
call you my friend.

MR KNIGHTLEY

The Eltons are unpardonable. I must say they aim at wounding more than just
Harriet. They seem to want to snub you too, Emma! Why? Certainly, Mrs Elton
has no reason to dislike you. Confess now, old friend, you did want to him
to marry Harriet.

EMMA

I did, and they cannot forgive me. Oh, dear. How could I have made such a
misjudgment! What is the point of me being almost twenty-two when there is
still so much for me to learn?

MR KNIGHTLEY

You know more than you realize!

EMMA

I know I must own to you to be completely wrong about Mr Elton. There is a
littleness to him which you discovered that I did not.

MR KNIGHTLEY

In return for your acknowledging so much, I say that you chose for him
better than he chose for himself. But Harriet Smith has some first rate
qualities about her that Mrs Elton is entirely without. Your friend
surprised me, most pleasantly.

MR WESTON

Emma, dear, it's the last dance. Will you please come and set an example
for your companions?

EMMA

Gladly.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Whom are you going to dance with?

EMMA

With you, if you will ask me. You have shown yourself to be a fine dancer,
despite all your protests, and it would not be improper for us to dance.
After all, we are not brother and sister!

MR KNIGHTLEY

Brother and sister! No, no, indeed we are not.

SCENE 40-ROAD TO HARTFIELD

EMMA

What of your news?

HARRIET

We must wait until we are at your house in front of the fireplace. It must
happen there.

EMMA

Very well. Wasn't the ball lovely?

HARRIET

Oh, I had the most wonderful time! It was out of a dream---

EMMA

Don't worry, dear. Let's move a touch more quickly. Tell me more about the
ball.

HARRIET

I had such...It was very...

GYPSIES

Quick! Get her purse! Get around them, damnit! Pull, damn you, pull!

FRANK

Stand aside!

SCENE 41-HARTFIELD

HARRIET

Oh, how can I ever thank you! How brave you were! I owe you everything!

FRANK

Miss Woodhouse will make things right. If I am no longer needed, I must go
and meet my father.

HARRIET

Of course. Bless you for your help! Bless you again and again!

EMMA

Goodness! What an afternoon!

HARRIET

All this trouble to do something which I should have done long ago. I have
come to a decision about Mr Elton. I shall never forget him or his wife at
the ball. To prove my sincerity, I shall now destroy something which I had
thought to cherish always. You know what this is, of course. Can you have
forgotten? Mr Elton cut his finger, and you urged me to bind the wound. I
cut too much bandage, and he played with the extra little bit while I
finished it up. He left it by his chair, and I, in my nonsense, made a
treasure of it.

EMMA

Dear Harriet.

HARRIET

But let me see. Here is something which truly was his. He left it here
once, and I took it. I used to take it, and hold it, but no more. I want to
be rid of these things with you as my witness. I think I should burn them.

EMMA

I think it would be a wise and relieving thing to do.

HARRIET

Goodbye, Mr Elton

EMMA (thinking)

Hello, Mr Churchill.

SCENE 42-BOX HILL PARTY

EMMA

When you get married, you must eat strawberries at your wedding.

HARRIET

I shall never marry.

EMMA

Really? I was certain you were developing feelings for someone. The service
he rendered you would endear him, naturally!

HARRIET

Oh, I cannot tell you what I felt when I saw him coming to my rescue! I
went from agony to utter happiness at the sight of him.

EMMA

He is a fine choice for you, but do not let your feelings go until you are
sure of his. I give you this caution now because I am determined never to
interfere. I will not even say his name to you, only that raising your
thoughts to him is a mark of your very good taste.

(later)

MRS ELTON

I have some wonderful news. I have found a position for you. It is with a
choice family in Bath, and the position is in--

JANE

I'm most obliged, but I would not consider leaving Highbury.

MRS ELTON

As your protector, I cannot allow you to feel that way. I'm sure everyone
agrees with me. What are your options? After all, Jane.

FRANK

These sandwiches are delicious, Mrs Elton. You really are a gourmet!

MRS ELTON

Well, I never compliment myself, but my friends tell me I certainly know
how to make a sandwich. Now, Jane. I--

FRANK

Shall we all play a game? I command that we each tell Miss Woodhouse
something entertaining. You may offer one thing very clever, two things
moderately clever, or three things very dull, indeed. And in return, Miss
Woodhouse will laugh heartily at them all.

MRS ELTON

I do not pretend to be a wit, though I have a great deal of vivacity in my
own way, of course. These diversions are tolerable at Christmas, when one
is around the fire, but in my opinions, it wastes the outdoors. Miss
Woodhouse, you must excuse me.

MR ELTON

And me. I am an old married man, and have nothing to say that would please
Miss Woodhouse, or any young lady.

MISS BATES

Well, I need not be uneasy, as long as we're allowed to say dull things.
Very dull, in fact. I should be sure to say things very dull in fact as
soon as I open my mouth, shan't I?

EMMA

That may be a difficult thing.

MISS BATES

Oh, I doubt that. I'm sure I never fail to say things very dull.

EMMA

Yes, dear, but you will be limited in number, only three.

MISS BATES.

Oh, to be sure. Yes. I see, I see, I see what she means. I will try and
hold my tongue. I must have made myself very disagreeable or she would not
have said such a thing to an old friend. Just three. Yes.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Miss Bates, will you give me the pleasure of your company whilst I pick
some more strawberries?

MISS BATES

Oh, thank you, Mr Knightley. That would be charming.

(later)

MR KNIGHTLEY

Emma, how could you be so unfeeling to Miss Bates? How can you be so
insolent to a woman of her age and situation? I had not thought it
possible?

EMMA

How could I help saying it? I daresay she did not understand me.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Oh, I assure you, she felt your fool meaning. She cannot stop mentioning
it! I wish you could have heard her honor your forbearance in putting up
with her when her society is so irksome.

EMMA

I know there is no better creature in all the world, but you must allow
that blended alongside of the good there is an equal among of ridiculous in
her.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Were she prosperous, or a woman equal to your age and situation, I would
not quarrel with any liberties of manner. But she is poor! Even moreso than
when she was born, and should she live to be an old lady, she will sink
further still, her situation being in every way below you should secure
your compassion! Badly done, Emma. Badly done. She has watched you grow
from a time when her notice of her in honor to this, humbling her and
laughing at her in front of people who would be guided by your treatment of
her. It is not pleasant for me to say these things, but I must tell you the
truth while I still can, proving myself your friend by the most faithful
counsel, trusting that sometime you will do my faith in you greater justice
that you do it now.

SCENE 43-MISS BATES' HOUSE

MAID

Oh, good afternoon, Miss Woodhouse. Please come in. Wait here please.

MISS BATES

Just tell her I'm unwell and laying down upon the bed.

SCENE 44-HARTFIELD

MR WOODHOUSE

You mean you walked all the way, and on such a cold night?

MR KNIGHTLEY

Certainly I walked.

MR WOODHOUSE

My dear! How did you find my old friend, and her daughter? Emma has called
on Mrs and Miss Bates. She always shows them such kindness.

EMMA

No, father. They have been the ones to forbear and show me kindness.

MR WOODHOUSE

Nonsense, daughter! The charity that you have given them is--

EMMA

I have given them charity, but not kindness, a virtue which some friends
may doubt I still have.

MR KNIGHTLEY

The truest friend does not doubt, but hope. I must go. I'm leaving town to
visit John and Isabella.

EMMA

I'm sorry I was not here sooner so that we could have talked.

MR KNIGHTLEY

So am I.

EMMA

When will you be back?

MR KNIGHTLEY

I don't know. There is a delicate and perplexing matter I must discuss with
my brother.

EMMA

Well, then.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Well, then.

SCENE 45-HARTFIELD

EMMA (writing in diary)

Frank Churchill's aunt has died, taking him away. This strengthens
Harriet's chances with him since the aunt was sure to object. I continue in
my efforts to make amends with Miss Bates. Though matters are not yet fully
repaired, I feel a renewal in our friendship is ahead of us. Above all, I
am most gratified to say that good Mr Knightley...Mr Knightley...had been
privy to my attempts, could he have seen into my heart, I think that he
could find nothing to reprove.

SCENE 46-RANDALL

MRS WESTON

Frank is engaged!

EMMA

I cannot believe it! So quickly?

MRS WESTON

Quickly? The engagement has been in place for some time. Emma, Frank has
been secretly engaged to Jane Fairfax!

EMMA

Good God! This cannot be the truth!

MRS WESTON

They've been engaged since October, formed an awayment through his friend
Charles Dickson.

EMMA

Mr Dickson...

MRS WESTON

He kept it secret because he feared his aunt's disapproval. It has hurt
both his father and me, more importantly, because of whom else it might
hurt.

EMMA

I cannot pretend I do not understand what you mean by that. Therefore, let
me give you all the relief in my power. There was a time when I was
attached to Frank, fortunately that ceased, for some time I have felt
nothing for him.

MRS WESTON

This was my greatest worry. I'm certain you knew it was our wish you might
be attached. Imagine what we felt on your account.

EMMA

There is not need to worry about that. Although how could he have come here
and treated me in this fashion? It is cruel, truly cruel!

MRS WESTON

Yes, dear, but I thought you said you felt nothing for him.

EMMA

Yes, but he did not know that. He is benefiting from a very lucky
coincidence.

MRS WESTON

Now, Emma, he's a good man, however wrong this action might be. Dear, might
I entreat you to put Mr Weston's heart as ease? He's been as worried about
you as I! Could you let him know how glad you are for Frank to have found a
girl with such steady character?

EMMA

I do not know how steady her character can be engaging herself to a man who
pretends not to be engaged, then deceives attractive and feeling young
women! Here is the luckiest father in all of England!

MRS WESTON

Thank you!

SCENE 47-HARTFIELD

HARRIET

Is that not the oddest news you ever heard about Mr Churchill and Miss
Fairfax? Had you any idea of it?

EMMA

Can you imagine, if I knew, and I was encouraging you to give way to your
own feelings? Had I known I would have cautioned you!

HARRIET

Cautioned me? Why? You do not think that I care about Frank Churchill?

EMMA

What--What do you mean? You said that you loved a man--

HARRIET

I hoped I had develop better taste than to choose Frank Churchill over him.
Frank Churchill.... Furthermore, I would never have even dreamed of him
except that you told me he was wonderful!

EMMA

Yes, but I thought you meant--

HARRIET

That raising my thoughts to him would be a sign of my very good taste,
those were your words.

EMMA

Yes, but I meant them in reference to--

HARRIET

And without having heard them I would never have dared to hope.

EMMA

Harriet, please! Before we can go on, there is something that I must
clarify! Is it possible that you are speaking of ...Mr Knightley?

HARRIET

To be sure!

EMMA

But you spoke of the service that Frank had rendered in rescuing you from
the gypsies?

HARRIET

Oh, I never said that!

EMMA

I remember it with perfect clarity.

HARRIET

If I spoke of being rescued, I was thinking Mr Knightley asking me to dance
after Mr Elton snubbed me. That was when I knew how superior a man he is.

EMMA

Good God! What a horrible mistake! What is to be done?

HARRIET

Must something be done about it? You must think him five hundred million
times more above me than Mr Churchill, yet you did say...?

EMMA

Harriet, have you any idea of Mr Knightley returning your affection?

HARRIET

Yes, I must say that I have. You told me to let his behaviour to be the
rule of min, and so I have! Am I wrong to hope as I do?

EMMA

Harriet, I can only venture to declare that Mr Knightley is the last man on
earth who would intentionally give any woman the idea of feeling more for
her than he really does.

SCENE 48-HARTFIELD GARDEN

EMMA

This is tragic.

MRS WESTON

Why is it tragic that Harriet should attach herself to a man whom you
admire so much.

EMMA

I have asked myself many times why this should have unsettled me, and I
have came to see that I do not admire Mr Knightley as I so long thought. I
love him, so dearly, so greatly. Outside of you and father, his is the
opinion that matters most.

MRS WESTON

Oh, my dearest child!

EMMA

I did not know it until poor Harriet said that she had the hope of his
returning her affection that I felt ill that I could lose him, and I knew
that noone must marry Mr Knightley but me!

MRS WESTON

Oh, heavenly!

EMMA

But I am too late. Just before left town, he said:

MR KNIGHTLEY

There is a delicate and perplexing matter I must discuss with my brother.

EMMA

I hope this brother advises him to be careful! After all, we know nothing
about his parents! They could be pirates!

MRS WESTON

My dear, I like Harriet very much, as I might remind you, do you! But
remember, her feelings are evidence of her feelings only. Nothing can be
known until Mr Knightley returns.

EMMA

I long for it and fear it at the same time. I shall not know how to behave
when I see him!

MRS WESTON

Let his behavior be your guide.

EMMA

But oh, dear! If he seems happy than I know that he has decided to marry
Harriet, and I will not, I know I will not be able to let him tell me, I
could not bear to hear the words. But if he seems sad then I shall know
that John has advised him not to marry Harriet. I love John! Or, he may
seem sad because he fears telling me that he is going to marry my friend!
How could John let him do that? I hate John!

MRS WESTON

My dear, nothing can be done until he returns, and until he does, you must
try to put him out of your mind. Can you do that?

EMMA

Certainly I can. I may have lost my heart, but not my self-control.

SCENE 49-HARTFIELD

EMMA (writing in her diary)

Dear diary, Today I tried not to think about Mr Knightley. I tried not to
think about him when I spoke about the menu with cook.

COOK

Oh, is Mr Knightley coming?

EMMA

Why do you say that?

COOK

Lamb stew's his favorite.

EMMA (writing)

I tried not to think about him in the garden where I thrice plucked the
petals off a daisy trying to ascertain his feelings for Harriet. I don't
think we should keep daisies in the garden. They really are drab little
flowers. And I tried not to think about him when I went to bed, but
something had to be done.

SCENE 50-HIGHBURY CHURCH

EMMA (praying)

Dear Lord, if he cannot share a life with me, is it wrong to ask that he
not share it with anyone? That we go on as we go on now, him stopping by at
any hour, always the brightest part of our lives, a natural and easy member
of the family. I would be content if he just stayed single Lord. That's it!
If he would just stay single, that would be enough to make me perfectly
satisfied.

EMMA (aloud)

Almost. Amen.

SCENE 51-ROAD TO HARTFIELD

MR KNIGHTLEY

Emma! Forgive me, I was lost in my thoughts.

EMMA

And how are you? Happy?

MR KNIGHTLEY

Well, happy to see you, as always.

EMMA

I didn't know that you were back.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Just. Yes, just.

EMMA

Ah. I am on my way home.

MR KNIGHTLEY

I was just there. May I join you?

EMMA

Of course. Oh, dear...

MR KNIGHTLEY

What?

EMMA

What? Oh! Something about the deer that we need for the venison stew.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Uh-huh. Emma, there's something I have to ask.

EMMA

Oh, wait, now that you are back, there is some news that will surprise you.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Of what nature is this news?

EMMA

The very best. It is a wedding between two--

MR KNIGHTLEY

Oh, yes! Between Jane and Mr Churchill. Mr Weston wrote to me.

EMMA

Undoubtedly you are not surprised. I seemed doomed to blindness.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Time will heal your wound.

EMMA

My wound?

MR KNIGHTLEY

I know you must have been cruelly disappointed by his secret. He's a
scoundrel.

EMMA

You are kind, but I must tell you that I quickly saw qualities, honesty
being one, which are essential to me in any kind of friend.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Emma, is that true?

EMMA

He imposed on me, but he has not injured me.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Yes, he got everything he wanted at great expense to others, and at no cost
to himself. He offends me, deeply. Yet there is something in his situation
that I envy.

EMMA

Did I mention we are having a new drain installed?

MR KNIGHTLEY

You will not ask me the point of my envy. Well, perhaps you are wise. But,
I cannot be wise. Emma, I must tell you what you will not ask, though I may
wish it unsaid the next moment.

EMMA

Then do not speak it. Do not commit yourself to something that will injure
us both to have said.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Very well. Very well. Good day.

EMMA

Mr Knightley! Mr Knightley. I stopped you ungraciously just now and gave
you pain. If you have any wish to speak to me about anything you have in
contemplation, as your friend I cannot refuse you. Indeed, as your old
friend, I will hear whatever it is you wish to tell me.

MR KNIGHTLEY

Emma! You want our friendship to remain the same as it has always been, but
I cannot desire that.

EMMA

But why? I know I make mistakes, but had you been here the last few days
you would have seen how I have tried to change! Please tell me I am your
friend.

MR KNIGHTLEY

I do not wish to call you my friend, because I hoped to call you something
infinitely more dear. Did you never wonder why I never befriended Frank
Churchill. It was because I knew he was intended for you. Indeed, when you
insulted Miss Bates at the picnic, I thought that evidence of his influence
over you. And I couldn't bear to see it, so I went away, but I went to the
wrong place. My brother's house is usually a place of comfort to me, but
seeing your sister there kept you fresh in my mind. And the torture, I
assure you, was acute. I only felt hope again when I heard of Mr
Churchill's engagement, and I rushed back, anxious for your feelings, keen
to be near you. I rode through the rain, but I'd ride through worse if I
could just hear your voice telling me that I might at least have some
chance to win you.

EMMA

Mr Knightley, if I have not spoken, it is because I am afraid I will awaken
myself from this dream! It cannot be true! But I feel so full of error, so
mistaken in my make-up to deserve you!

MR KNIGHLTY

What of my flaws? I've humbled you, and I've lectured you and you have
borne it as noone could have born it. Maybe it is our imperfections that
make us so perfect for one another. Marry me? Oh, marry me, my wonderful,
darling friend! Let's go to your father.

EMMA

Oh, dear!

MR KNIGHTLEY

What?

EMMA

I cannot marry you!

MR KNIGHTLEY

Whyever not?

EMMA

My father! First my sister, then Mrs Weston, I don't think he could bear my
leaving even for a man he regards as highly as you, I cannot marry you! I
cannot abandon him, I cannot!

MR KNIGHTLEY

I could not secure your happiness by attacking your father's. As long as
his joy requires your being at Hartfield, let it be my home, too.

EMMA

Thank you! Thank you! Now, I need not call you Mr Knightley! I may call you
my Mr Knightley.

SCENE 52-HARTFIELD

THE NARRATOR

The elation Mr Woodhouse felt was soon shared by many. While these
exchanges lifted the hearts of the couple, there was one visit which did
not. Emma knew that Harriet's best chance for happiness was that she would
marry as well, but it seemed too much to hope that even Harriet Smith could
be in love with more than three men in one year.

SCENE 53-HARTFIELD

HARRIET

Miss Woodhouse? May I come in?

EMMA

Oh, you need never ask! Please, do and tell me how you've been! It seems
weeks since you've been here!

HARRIET

Yes, well, I stayed away at first because I thought it would be easier for
me. Then I stayed away, because I have something to tell you which I am
afraid you will not like.

EMMA

Harriet, nothing that you say would ever be unpleasant.

HARRIET

This is. That is, I think that you will think it is, though I think it as
beautiful as a dream! I have consented to marry Robert Martin!

EMMA

Whatever happened?

HARRIET

Well, after leaving here the last time, I saw his sister at a party. I fell
easily into conversation with her, and soon enough, she invited me to
dinner. Mr Martin was there, of course, and we talked as though we had
never been apart! As I left, he asked if he could see me the next day, and
I said that he could, and on the next day, he asked if he could see me the
day after that, and on the day after that, he asked if he could see me all
the days ever after.

EMMA

Harriet!

HARRIET

Well, I know this disappoints you, but--

EMMA

Harriet, you mistake me. This is the perfect end for my sad career as a
matchmaker, a role I gladly relinquish, by being instead so happily matched
myself. I hope you know I only wanted your happiness! Now that you have
found it, it makes my earth complete.

SCENE 54-HIGHBURY CHAPEL

NARRATOR

There are those who thought the wedding a little shabby.

MRS ELTON

I do not profess to be an expert in the field of fashion, though my friends
say I have quite the eye, but I can tell you, there is a shocking lack of
satin.

NARRATOR

However, the wishes, the faith and the predictions of the small band of
true friends who witnessed the ceremony were fully answered in the perfect
happiness of the union.





THE END

