GLADIATOR - The Movie
*****************************************
AT THE HEIGHT OF ITS POWER, THE ROMAN EMPIRE WAS VAST, STRETCHING 
FROM THE DESERTS OF AFRICA TO THE BORDERS OF NORTHERN ENGLAND. 

OVER ONE QUARTER OF THE WORLD'S POPULATION LIVED AND DIED UNDER 
THE RULE OF THE CAESARS. 

IN THE WINTER OF 180 A.D. EMPEROR MARCUS AURELIUS' TWELVE-YEAR 
CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE BARBARIAN TRIBES IN GERMANIA WAS DRAWING TO 
AN END. 

ONE FINAL STRONGHOLD STANDS IN THE WAY OF ROMAN VICTORY AND THE 
PROMISE OF PEACE THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE. 

* * * * * * * *

OPENING SCENE - Close up - a rough weathered hand lightly brushes 
the tops of wheat as a man walks through the tall wheat towards a 
woman (his wife) and child (his son). In the background can be 
heard the faint laughter of a child. The man dressed in Roman 
soldier uniform, is General Maximus. He quickly leaves this 
pleasant vision to return to Germania where the armour-suited 
General stands amidst the mud and burned forest, cloaked in a fur 
cape that protects him from the cold winter air. The General 
contemplates the battle that is to take place. Turning to join 
the troops, a small Robin catches his eye as it sits on a bare 
twig and then flies away. The General Maximus smiles, watching as 
though a remembrance of his life as a farmer when life was 
peaceful and innocent, but he is quickly brought back to the 
reality of the cold day...and to the soldiers who await his 
signal to begin the battle.

[SCENE
Germania - prebattle. As the cavalry rides past Maximus, soldiers 
are lining up for battle. Maximus walks along the ranks of the 
army. The soldiers rise as he approaches, looking at him with 
great respect and admiration. At the top of the hill, overlooking 
the battle field, sits Caesar Marcus Aurelius atop his horse, 
surrounded by the Roman Praetorian guards. Back on the battle 
field, Maximus approaches and addresses Quintus and Valerius.]

MAXIMUS
Lean and hungry. Still nothing? 

QUINTUS
Not a sign. 

MAXIMUS
How long has he been gone? 

VALERIUS
Nearly 2 hours. 

VALERIUS
Will they fight, sir? 

MAXIMUS
We shall know soon enough. 

[Quintus looks over at the soldiers readying the catapults.]

QUINTUS
Soldier, I ordered you to move those catapults forward, they're 
out of range. 

MAXIMUS
Range is good. 

QUINTUS
The danger to the cavalry... 

MAXIMUS 
[interrupts]
It is acceptable, agreed? 

[In the distant, the cries of the barbarians can be heard - "ihr 
seid hunde" (you are dogs!). A horse rides from the German line 
with a headless horseman on its back....]

MAXIMUS
They say no. 

[The white and bloodied horse rides within the ranks of the Roman 
soldiers. A barbarian comes to the forefront of the German lines, 
waving the horseman's head, tossing it into the mud....]

GERMAN BARBARIAN
Ihr seid verfluchte hunde! (You are damned dogs!)

[As the barbarian calls out his cry, his mangy band of barbarians 
emerge from the forest, shaking and waving their spears and 
shields, ready to fight.]

QUINTUS
People should know when they're conquered. 

MAXIMUS
Would you, Quintus? Would I? 

[Maximus bends down and picks up a handful of dirt, bringing it 
to his nose to smell. He looks to the side and sees his WOLF OF 
ROME eagerly watching him. They steady their gaze as though 
communicating with each other. Maximus rises and mounts his 
horse, turning to Quintus and Valerius.]

MAXIMUS
Strength and honour. 

QUINTUS
Strength and honour. 

VALERIUS
Strength and honour.

MAXIMUS
At my signal, unleash hell. 

[He rides off. His wolf breaks free from the handler, charges 
after Maximus, running along side the horse.]

QUINTUS
Load the catapults; infantry form up for advance...archers ready. 

CHIEF ARCHER
Archers! 

CENTURION
Nock! 

ARCHER
Nock! 

[Maximus rides up into the forest where the cavalry await, his 
wolf running closely at his side. Maximus stops and addresses the 
men....]

MAXIMUS
Fratres..., three weeks from now I will be harvesting my crops, 
imagine where you will be and it will be so. Hold the lines, stay 
with me. If you find yourself alone riding in green fields with 
the sun on your face, do not be troubled, for you are in Elysium 
and you're already dead!!!. 
[The men laugh.]
 Brothers, what we do in life echoes in eternity. 

[Barely seen, a soldier hands Maximus his helmet. Maximus turns 
to an archer and nods, giving the signal to "unleash hell" and a 
flaming arrow is shot through the sky. Back on the battlefield, 
the flaming arrow is witnessed and all hell breaks loose....]

ONAGER CENTURION
Pull, Pull! 

SHOUT
Cohorts, ready sir!

1st CENTURION
Archers, ignite! 

2nd CENTURION
Ignite! 

1st CENTURION
Archers, draw! 

ONAGER CENTURION
Loose! 

[Scorpions fire, onagers let loose, flaming arrows, defiant 
cheers from the mob. As Maximus leads the thundering cavalry down 
through the trees, shouts can be heard from Maximus and his 
men....]

MAXIMUS
Hold the line! 

SOLDIER
Make ready. 

MAXIMUS
Hold the line! 

[More archer battle scene....]

MAXIMUS
Stay with me! Stay with me! 

[III Felix Legion advancing, then tortoise formation, then 
barbarian charge. Maximus' wolf leaps through a wall of flames. 
The cavalry reaches the Germans. Swords are flying as they attack 
each other. Maximus charges at a barbarian, slicing his head off 
as his sword becomes impaled in a tree. Maximus' horse is felled 
when a barbarian thrusts a lance in its path causing Maximus to 
fall hard, into the mud, amongst the soldiers. Maximus looks 
stunned, but as a German attacks him with his axe, Maximus 
parries each thrust before lashing out and cutting the German's 
legs from under him. The German collapses. Another German charges 
Maximus, who is still on the ground. Maximus manages to slide 
past the oncoming sword thrust. He punches the soldier, than 
stabs him. He climbs to his feet, still stabbing at the wounded 
German. Maximus starts running, but collides with another 
legionary. Maximus turns towards the startled legionary, who can 
only stand there agape as Maximus raises his sword in a feral 
scream. Maximus rec

[Scene cuts to the barbarian warlord -- barbarian warlord 
finishes off a legionary, but before he has time to recover, 
another legionary rushes and stabs him in the side. The barbarian 
stumbles, but does not fall. Another soldier strikes him from the 
other side, but he still does not fall. Finally, a soldier 
strikes him from behind, a vicious thrust from above into his 
neck. Scene cuts to a centurion who falls from his horse, then 
back to Maximus. Maximus punches a German twice, before slashing 
him across the chest with his sword. Maximus hears another 
German's scream coming from behind. Startled, he turns to see a 
barbarian, whose clothes and chain mail are aflame, charging 
towards him with an axe. Maximus parries the first swing, but 
goes down. As the barbarian raises his axe for the final swing, a 
charging cavalryman rushes by with a timely swing of his sword, 
and the barbarian falls, saving Maximus from death. Another 
barbarian sees Maximus and charges, but only to be stopped in 
midswing by the WOLF OF RO

[We see a scene where a cavalryman falls from his horse, dead, 
and unhelmed. Another scene with a legionary, crying. Maximus and 
another legionary gathering themselves between the standards. The 
brutal battle is over, with legionaries wandering, slaying 
wounded Germans. Maximus raises his sword, crying out, "Roma 
Victa!" Other legionaries raise their swords and cheer. Maximus 
stands amongst the dead and wounded, the remaining Roman soldiers 
at his side as he raises his sword and, exhausted, again cries 
out for all to hear....]

MAXIMUS
Roma victa! 

CENTURION
Roma victa! 

[At the top of the hill, Caesar Marcus Aurelius slowly leans his 
head back in relief of the victory.]

[Scene change - roadway, guarded armoured wagon is slowly moving 
along. In it, Commodus and Lucilla, as they make their way to 
their father, Marcus Aurelius.]

COMMODUS
Do you think he's really dying? 

LUCILLA
He's been dying for ten years. 

COMMODUS
If he weren't really dying he wouldn't have sent for us. 

LUCILLA
Maybe he just misses us. 

COMMODUS
And the Senators...he wouldn't have summoned them if....

LUCILLA
Peace, Commodus. After two weeks on the road your incessant 
scheming is hurting my head. 

COMMODUS
He's made his decision, he's going to announce it! He will name 
me.... The first thing I shall do...when...is honour him with 
games worthy of his majesty. 

LUCILLA
For now, the first thing I shall do is have a hot bath. 

[There is a knock on the wagon as it comes to a halt. An unseen 
attendant calls out - "Your Highness". Commodus steps out.]

ATTENDANT
We look to be almost there, Sire. 
[A battle weary soldier approaches the wagon]
Sire.

COMMODUS
Where's the Emperor? 

SOLDIER
At the front, Sire. They've been gone for 19 days. The wounded 
are still coming in. 

[Commodus calls to the guard - "My horse!" Commodus mounts his 
horse, looks back at Lucilla and hesitantly asks - "kiss?" to 
which she kisses her hand and tosses her hand his way.]

[Scene change back to the battle field where the light snow 
continues to fall. Maximus has found his sword impaled in the 
tree during battle. He removes the sword and as he turns, Marcus 
walks up amidst the soldiers as they stand and bow in his honour. 
Marcus walks to Maximus.]

MARCUS
You have proved your valour yet again, Maximus. Let us hope, for 
the last time.

MAXIMUS
There is no one left to fight, Sire.

MARCUS
There is always someone left to fight, Maximus. Tell me, how can 
I reward Rome's greatest General?  

[The battle weary Maximus, face splattered with the blood of his 
enemy, body drained from the exertion of the battle, thinks 
momentarily and simply replies.]

MAXIMUS
Let me go home?

MARCUS
Ahh. Home. 

[Marcus and Maximus, walk together through the debris of the 
battle, amidst the soldiers who are cheering as they pass.]

MAXIMUS
They honour you, Caesar. 

MARCUS
It is you, Maximus. They honour you. 

[Maximus stops momentarily and raises his sword overhead. The 
army cheers even loader. In the distant, Commodus and his guards 
atop their horses, witnesses Maximus with his father, hears the 
cheers and quickly races down to them.]

COMMODUS

[Quickly dismounting his horse, he approaches Marcus.]
 Have I missed it. Have I missed the battle? 

MARCUS
You have missed the war. 

COMMODUS
Congratulations. I shall sacrifice 100 bulls to honour your 
triumph. 

MARCUS
Save the bulls, honour Maximus. He won the battle. 

COMMODUS
General.

MAXIMUS
Highness.

COMMODUS
Rome salutes you and I embrace you as a brother. It has been too 
long old friend.

MAXIMUS
Highness. 
[Maximus with head bowed. Commodus turns to his father.]

COMMODUS
Here, father, take my arm. 

MARCUS
I think it is time...for me to leave.  

[Commodus appears embarrassed that his father would not accept 
his help, and looks at Maximus with envy and scorn. Marcus gets 
on his horse and Maximus quickly hands his sword to Quintus while 
he assists Marcus in settling onto his horse.]

MARCUS 
[to Maximus]
So much for the glory of Rome. 

[And Marcus Leaves....]

[SCENE CHANGE to tent where party is taking place. Music and 
laughter fill the air. Maximus enters, washes his hands in a bowl 
of water, seemingly stained with the blood of the battle. Maximus 
looks into the crowd and sees Marcus and Commodus within. He then 
moves toward Quintus and Valerius....]

QUINTUS
General!

MAXIMUS
Still alive? 

QUINTUS
Still alive. 

MAXIMUS
The gods must have a sense of humour. 

QUINTUS
The gods must love you. 

VALERIUS
Back to your barracks, General, or to Rome? 

MAXIMUS
Home. The wife, the son, the harvest. 

QUINTUS
Maximus the farmer. I still have difficulty imagining that. 

MAXIMUS
You know, Quintus, dirt cleans off a lot easier than blood. 

COMMODUS
[As he approaches Maximus,]
Here he is. 

MAXIMUS
Highness. 

COMMODUS
[Making introductions,]
 Senator Gaius, Senator Falco.   Beware of Gaius, he will pour 
honeyed potion in your ear and you will wake up one day and all 
you'll say is Republic! Republic! Republic! 

GAIUS
Well, Rome WAS founded as a Republic.

COMMODUS
Yes and in a republic, the senate has the power. But Senator 
Gaius is not influenced by that, of course. 

FALCO
Where do you stand General? Emperor or Senate? 

MAXIMUS
A soldier has the advantage of being able to look his enemy in 
the eye, Senator.

GAIUS
You know, with an army behind you, you could be extremely 
political.

COMMODUS
I warned you, but I shall save you. Senators. 
[He pulls Maximus away and they leave the Senators. Commodus 
continues his conversation with Maximus.]
I'm going to need good men like you.

MAXIMUS

[Cautiously asking,]
 How may I be of service, Highness?

COMMODUS
You are a man who knows what it is to command. You give your 
orders, the orders are obeyed, and the battle is won. But these 
senators, they scheme and squabble and flatter and deceive. 
Maximus we must save Rome from the politicians. 
[Glancing over to Marcus and back to Maximus.]
Can I count on you, when the time comes?

MAXIMUS
[Following Commodus' glance, he looks at Marcus and back to 
Commodus.]
Highness, when your father releases me I intend to return home.

COMMODUS
Home, well no one has earned it more. Don't get too comfortable - 
I may call on you before long. Lucilla is here - did you know? 
[A look of concern over Commodus' remarks about future service, 
followed with surprise about Lucilla overcome Maximus as Commodus 
continues....]
She has not forgotten you. And now you are the great man. 

[SCENE CHANGE - Lucilla and her maid are seen peering out from 
the tent to where Commodus and Maximus talk. Eyeing Maximus, 
Lucilla murmurs "Maximus". Marcus enters the tent and they 
quickly stop when he catches their attention.]

MARCUS
If only you had been born a man. What a Caesar you would have 
made. 

LUCILLA
Father 
[as she walks to him and kisses his cheek]
.

MARCUS
You would have been strong. I wonder, would you have been just. 

LUCILLA
I would have been what you taught me to be. 

MARCUS
Oh. How was your journey? 

LUCILLA
Long - uncomfortable. Why have I come? 

MARCUS
I need your help...with your brother. 

LUCILLA
Of course.

MARCUS
He loves you, he always has and... he will need you now, more 
than ever. 
[A contemplative pause by Marcus and he continues as they walk 
arm in arm....]
 Enough of politics. Let us pretend that you are a loving 
daughter and I am a good father. 

LUCILLA
This is a pleasant fiction, isn't it? 

[SCENE CHANGE - camp, fire pits warm the air, light snow falls, 
Maximus walks, greeting and congratulating the men as they rest, 
eat, and sharpen their swords. Maximus approaches his horse 
stroking its head and his attention is caught by the sound of 
swords clashing amongst the trees. He sees Commodus and his 
guards, shirtless, as they exercise sword maneuvers in the cold. 
Commodus is an excellent swordsman.]

[SCENE CHANGES to Marcus's tent where Marcus sits hunched over 
his desk, writing on a tablet. Maximus enters and Marcus does not 
look up.]

MAXIMUS
You sent for me Caesar? 
[No response. Maximus turns to look at the weak and old Marcus.]
 Caesar? 

MARCUS

[Straightening up from the desk,]
 Tell me again Maximus, why are we here? 

MAXIMUS
For the glory of the empire, Sire. 

MARCUS
Ah yes, ah yes. I remember. You see that map, Maximus? That is 
the world which I created. For 25 years, I have conquered, spilt 
blood, expanded the empire. Since I became Caesar I have known 4 
years without war - 4 years of peace in 20. And for what? 
[He rises.]
 I brought the sword, nothing more. 

MAXIMUS
Caesar, your life... 

MARCUS
Please, please don't call me that. Come, please, come sit. Let us 
talk now, together now. Very simply, as men. Well, Maximus, talk. 

MAXIMUS
5,000 of my men are out there in the freezing mud. 3,000 of them 
are bloodied and cleaved. 2,000 will never leave this place. I 
will not believe they fought and died for nothing. 

MARCUS
And what would you believe? 

MAXIMUS
They fought for YOU and for Rome. 

MARCUS
And what is Rome, Maximus? 

MAXIMUS
I have seen much of the rest of the world. It is brutal and cruel 
and dark. Rome is the light. 

MARCUS
Yet you have never been there. You have not seen what it has 
become. I am dying, Maximus. When a man sees his end he wants to 
know that there has been some purpose to his life. How will the 
world speak my name in years to come? Will I be known as the 
philosopher, the warrior, the tyrant. Or will I be the Emperor 
who gave Rome back her true self? There was once a dream that was 
Rome, you could only whisper it. Anything more than a whisper and 
it would vanish. It was so fragile and I fear that it will not 
survive the winter. 
Maximus, let us whisper now. Together, you and I. You have a son? 
[Maximus nods.]
 Tell me about your home.   

[Maximus looks a bit surprised at the invitation to hear of his 
home, but eagerly and proudly describes it -- a peaceful 
happiness overcomes him as he speaks.]

MAXIMUS
My house is in the hills above Trujillo. Very simple place, pink 
stones that warm in the sun. Kitchen garden that smells of herbs 
in the day, jasmine in the evening. Through the gate is a giant 
poplar. Figs, apples, pears. The soil, Marcus, black ...black 
like my wife's hair. 
[Marcus warmly laughs with Maximus]
 Grapes on the south slopes, olives on the north. Wild ponies 
play near my house, they tease my son. He wants to be one of 
them.

MARCUS
Maximus, when was the last time you were home?

MAXIMUS
2 years, 264 days and this morning.

MARCUS
I envy you, Maximus. It is a good home. Worth fighting for? 
[Maximus nods yes and Marcus rises.]
 There is one more duty that I ask of you before you go home. 

[Maximus quickly rises, the soldier that he is; respectfully, to 
attention.]

MAXIMUS
What will you have me do, Caesar? 

MARCUS
I want you to become the protector of Rome after I die. I will 
empower you, to one end alone, to give power back to the people 
of Rome and end the corruption that has crippled it. 
[Shock and bewilderment overcome Maximus. He tries to keep from 
displaying these feelings. Hearing no response, Marcus 
continues.]
 Will you accept this great honour that I have offered? 

MAXIMUS
With all my heart, no. 

MARCUS

[Tenderly holding Maximus' head with both hands]

Maximus, that is why it must be you. 

MAXIMUS
But surely a prefect, a senator, somebody who knows the city, who 
understands her politics.... 

MARCUS
But you have not been corrupted by her politics. 

MAXIMUS
And Commodus? 

MARCUS
Commodus is not a moral man, you have known that since you were 
young. Commodus cannot rule. He must not rule. You are the son 
that I should have had. Commodus will accept my decision. He 
knows that you command the loyalty of the army.

MAXIMUS 
[Nearly speechless]

I need some time, Sire.

MARCUS
Yes. By sunset, I hope, you will have agreed. Now embrace me as 
my son and bring an old man another blanket. 

[SCENE CHANGE - As Maximus leaves Marcus' tent he hesitates 
outside, with a troubled look upon his face. Lucilla steps out 
from the adjacent tent. She appears to have been waiting for 
him.]

LUCILLA
My father favours you now. 

MAXIMUS
M'lady. 

LUCILLA
T'was not always so. 

MAXIMUS
Many things change. 

LUCILLA
Many things, not everything. 
[Maximus turns to leave.]
 Maximus, stop. Let me see your face. You seem upset. 

MAXIMUS
I lost many men. 

LUCILLA
What did my father want with you? 

MAXIMUS
To wish me well before I leave for home. 
[Again, he turns to leave.]

LUCILLA
You are lying. I could always tell when you were lying because 
you were never any good at it. 

[Maximus looks back at her sharply and approaches.]

MAXIMUS
I never acquired your comfort with it. 

LUCILLA
True. But then you never had to. Life is more simpler for a 
soldier. Or do you think me heartless? 

MAXIMUS
I think you have a talent for survival. 
[Again, he turns to leave. Lucilla laughs, wanting to prolong 
their time together.]

LUCILLA
Maximus, stop. Is it really so terrible seeing me again? 

MAXIMUS
No. I am tired from battle. 

LUCILLA
It hurts you to see my father so fragile. 
[Maximus nods.]

LUCILLA
Commodus expects my father to announce succession within days. 
Will you serve my brother as you have served my father? 

MAXIMUS
I will always serve Rome. 

LUCILLA
You know, I still remember you in my prayers. Oh, yes I pray. 

MAXIMUS
I was sad to hear of your husband's death. I mourned him. 

LUCILLA
Thank you. 

MAXIMUS
And I hear you have a son. 

LUCILLA
Yes, Lucius. He will be nearly 8 years old. 

MAXIMUS
My son is also nearly 8. 
[Again, a moment of peace overcomes him as he speaks of his 
family.]
 I thank you for your prayers. 
[Maximus leaves Lucilla as she stands alone, looking after him.]

[SCENE CHANGE - Maximus returns to his tent where he prays as he 
kneels in front of the shrine of his Ancestors and family.]

MAXIMUS
Ancestors, I ask you for your guidance. Blessed Mother, come to 
me with the Gods' desire for my future. Blessed Father, watch 
over my wife and my son with a ready sword. Whisper to them that 
I live only to hold them again. Ancestors, I honour you and will 
try to live with the dignity you have taught me. 
[Maximus tenderly and longingly kisses the figurine of his wife, 
stands and moves to sit on a chair as he calls to his friend and 
servant, Cicero.]

MAXIMUS
Cicero. Do you find it hard to do your duty? 

CICERO
Sometimes I do what I want to do. The rest of the time I do what 
I have to. 

MAXIMUS 
[rubbing his beard]

We may not be able to go home after all. 

[SCENE CHANGE - Commodus has entered Marcus' tent, gazing at the 
statue of his father, he reaches up and touches its face as 
Marcus enters from behind him.]

MARCUS
Are you ready to do your duty for Rome? 

COMMODUS 
[with a slight smile on his face]

Yes, father. 

MARCUS
You will not be Emperor. 

COMMODUS 
[the smile quickly vanishes leaving in its place painful 
bewilderment]

Which wiser, older man is to take my place? 

MARCUS
My powers will pass to Maximus to hold in trust until the Senate 
is ready to rule once more. Rome is to be a Republic again. 

COMMODUS
Maximus? 

[Marcus moves his hand to touch Commodus' face and Commodus turns 
away.]

MARCUS
My decision disappoints you? 

COMMODUS
You wrote to me once, listing the four chief virtues -- wisdom, 
justice, fortitude, and temperance. As I read the list I knew I 
had none of them. But I have other virtues, Father -- ambition, 
that can be a virtue when it drives us to excel; resourcefulness; 
courage, perhaps not on the battle field but there are many forms 
of courage; devotion, to my family, to you. But none of my 
virtues were on your list. Even then it was as if you didn't want 
me for your son. 

MARCUS
Oh, Commodus, you go too far. 

COMMODUS

[In anguish and tears from the disappointment of Marcus' 
decision]
 I searched the faces of the gods for ways to please you, to make 
you proud.... One kind word, one full hug while you pressed me to 
your chest and held me tight, would have been like the sun on my 
heart for a thousand years.... What is it in me you hate so much? 
All I ever wanted was to live up to you, Caesar, Father. 

MARCUS
Commodus, 
[he kneels in front of his son]
 your faults as a son, is my failure as a father. 
[He stretches his arms out to Commodus, seeking forgiveness. 
Commodus slowly embraces him, together they weep]

COMMODUS
Father, I would butcher the whole world if you would only loved 
me!!! 

[Marcus still kneeling, Commodus presses his father tightly 
against his body, smothering him, as Marcus struggles to be free, 
but fails. All the while, Commodus cries and moans in pain, as 
though a child.]

[SCENE CHANGE - Maximus is sleeping on his cot and Quintus 
quietly enters to wake him. Maximus quickly brandishes a knife, 
smiling with a hint of embarrassment when he sees it is Quintus.]

QUINTUS
Maximus. The Emperor needs you. It is urgent. 

[Together they return to Marcus' tent. As Maximus reaches the 
tent, the tarp is pulled back and there stands Commodus.]

COMMODUS
Lament with me, brother. Our great father is dead. 

MAXIMUS

[Looking untrusting at Commodus he turns to the body of Marcus, 
placing his hand to Marcus' forehead and then to the dead 
Emperor's throat as though to check for signs of life, and asks,]
 How did he die? 

COMMODUS
The surgeon said there was no pain. His breath gave out as he 
slept. 

MAXIMUS

[Leaning over Marcus, he whispers as he kisses his forehead.]
 Father.

COMMODUS
Your Emperor asks for your loyalty, Maximus. Take my hand. I only 
offer it once. 

[Maximus turns away from Marcus, looks at Lucilla as she sits in 
the corner, eyes moist with grief. Maximus, in disbelief, ignores 
Commodus, walks past him and out of the tent, calling to Quintus. 
Commodus turns to Quintus who looks back with a pained 
acknowledgment of orders that have already been given. Lucilla 
steps out from the corner, turns to Commodus, looks into his 
eyes, and slaps him, then picks up his hand and kisses it.]

LUCILLA
Hail Caesar. 

[SCENE CHANGE - Maximus' tent as he rushes in, buckling his 
armour as Cicero assists him. Maximus hurriedly calling out 
orders.... "I must talk to the senators. I need their counsel. 
Wake Gaius and Falco. Sword!" Before Cicero can hand Maximus his 
sword, Quintus enters.]

QUINTUS
Maximus, please be careful, that was not prudent. 

MAXIMUS
Prudent! The Emperor has been slain. 

QUINTUS
The Emperor died of natural causes. 

MAXIMUS
Quintus, why are you armed? 

QUINTUS
Guards! 
[The guards quickly enter, spinning Maximus around as they secure 
him.]
 Maximus please do not fight. I am sorry, Caesar has spoken. 

[Cicero looks at Maximus as if to hand him his sword but Maximus 
shakes his head, no. Quintus turns to the Praetorian guards.]

QUINTUS
Ride him until dawn and then execute him. 

MAXIMUS
Quintus, look at me. Look at me! Promise me that you will look 
after my family. 

QUINTUS
Your family will meet you in the after life.   

[Maximus struggles and one of the guards hits him across the back 
of the head with a sword.]

[SCENE CHANGE - to where Maximus is about to be executed. The 
guard tells Maximus to "kneel". As the assassin positions 
himself, Maximus prays within "Blessed Father watch over my wife 
and son. Whisper to them that I live only to hold them again." 
Then Maximus asks the chief guard, "At least give me a clean 
death - a soldier's death." The chief guard nods yes and the 
assassin changes position behind Maximus. As the assassin raises 
his sword, with speed, Maximus successfully disarms the guard 
about to kill him, grabbing the sword with his hands, he fatally 
stabs him and then turns to the chief guard who can't remove his 
sword from his sheath....]

MAXIMUS
The frost. Sometimes it makes the blade stick. 
[With a roar, Maximus swings the sword at the guard, cutting him 
across the face, killing him. Another guard, on horse, moves 
forward and the swishing sound of the sword can be heard as it 
comes spinning through the air, striking the guard dead. Maximus 
turns to the remaining guard who is on horse, drinking from a 
bottle of whiskey to warm himself from the cold. Maximus cries 
out, "Praetorian!" The Praetorian turns to see Maximus standing 
with a sword, tosses down the bottle and rides at him but Maximus 
swings his sword as the Praetorian passes. Maximus stands ready 
to fight again, but the Praetorian falls from his horse, having 
been fatally wounded. Maximus has been severely wounded to the 
arm. Having killed each of the Praetorian, Maximus takes two 
horses for his long journey home.]

[After a long run, exhausted, Maximus finally comes to a rest. He 
sits fireside, nursing his wound. His mind races with thoughts of 
his family and of what Marcus earlier asked him.... "When was the 
last time you were home, 2 years, 264 days and this morning. 
Blessed father, watch over them with a ready sword...with the 
dignity you have taught me...whisper to them that I live only to 
hold them again...my wife and son with a ready sword...for all 
else is dust and air...whisper that I live only to hold them 
again...for all else is dust and air."]

[SCENE CHANGE - As Maximus continues his journey home on 
horseback, Maximus has a vision of his home - wheat fields, his 
son playing with a white pony while his wife watches. Suddenly, 
the vision changes to one of harm, of the Praetorian riding 
towards his home, and as they arrive, trampling his son as his 
wife looks on helplessly. Maximus regains full consciousness and 
races to reach his family. The wound on his arm, bleeding 
profusely. His horse sweaty, breathing loudly and exhausted, 
strains under the run. As he nears his home black smoke of fires 
over his home can be seen. His horse, spent, gives out from under 
him and falls with a thunderous thud, throwing Maximus to the 
dirt as he groans heavily. The vision was an actuality. Maximus 
struggles to stand and stumbles the remainder of the way to his 
home. As he nears the home, he views bodies burnt, everything 
destroyed, fields smoking. In the distant, he sees two bodies 
hanging overhead. As he approaches he can identify the bodies to 
be of his wife and son

[A Bedouin troupe come across the scene and find Maximus' body, 
lying on top of the two graves of his wife and son. They are 
heard to say, "Hada mish huy?" (This one's not alive?) ... "Ma 
adri" (I don't know.) ... "Huy!" (He's alive!) ... "kalbash'hu'" 
(shackle him) ... "Hada mish huy" (this one is still alive).]

[The Bedouin whisk him away. Maximus finds himself on a wagon. He 
is slipping in and out of consciousness and into the after life. 
A sound startles him and he comes back to this life. He is dazed 
and hallucinating. Scenes of him chained and scenes of the 
figurines of his wife and son quickly flash across his mind. The 
soft voice of a Numidian slave (later to be known as Juba), is 
heard "you will meet them again, but not yet." Maximus looks at 
his wound which is infested with maggots. He begins to remove 
them and Juba says, "No, they will clean it. Wait and see." The 
caravan carrying the slaves winds it way through the vast desert. 
Juba, watching over the new slave, cautions him, "Don't die. They 
will feed you to the lions. They are worth more than we." 
[As Maximus looks at his wound, Juba says,]
 "Better now? Clean. See?" Juba places poultice on the gaping 
wound.]

[SCENE CHANGE - In Zucchabar, a Roman Province, at the bazaar. 
Proximo sits at a table, and the Slave Trader approaches Proximo 
to greet him....]

SLAVE TRADER
Proximo, old friend. Today is your most fortunate day. 

[Proximo mistrustingly looks at the slave trader and grabs the 
trader's crotch. The trader looks startled, and in pain.]

PROXIMO
Those giraffes you sold me, they won't mate. They just walk 
around eating, not mating. You sold me queer giraffes. I want my 
money back.

SLAVE TRADER
Not a chance. 
[He grunts as Proximo squeezes tighter.]
 I'll give do special price for you! 

PROXIMO
On what? 

SLAVE TRADER
Have you seen my new stock? Come and see them. 

[Proximo looks back and releases him with one final squeeze. 
Together they walk towards the market place.]

[SCENE CHANGE - to the market where the slaves await sale.]

PROXIMO
Do any of them fight? I have a match coming up.

SLAVE TRADER
Some are good for fighting, others for dying. You need both, I 
think.

PROXIMO

[to the Numidian slave]
 Get up! 
[Proximo examines him, slapping his body to check his muscles.]

PROXIMO
What was your trade?

JUBA
I was a hunter.

SLAVE TRADER
No, no, I bought him from a salt mine in Carthage. 
[The slave trader quickly and nervously tells him to sit down. 
Proximo continues to inspect the other slaves.]

PROXIMO 
[Maximus sits on the dirt, weak and lifeless. Proximo pokes at 
his gashed arm alongside the SPQR insignia]

The mark of the legion...deserter? 

SLAVE TRADER
Maybe. Who cares? He's a Spaniard.

PROXIMO
I will take 6 for 1,000. 

SLAVE TRADER
1,000?! The Numidian alone is worth 2,000! 

PROXIMO
These slaves are rotten! 

SLAVE TRADER
It adds to the flavour! 

[Proximo begins to walk away.]

SLAVE TRADER
No, no, wait, wait, wait! We can negotiate.

PROXIMO
I'll give you 2,000 and another 4 for the beasts. That's 5,000 
for an old friend. 

[SCENE CHANGE - Proximo's slaves carry him on sedan. Proximo 
impatiently ordering them to hurry.]

PROXIMO
Come on, how long does it take to get into my own house? 

[In front of the line of slaves, as they are being dusted with 
lime for pests and disease, Proximo addresses the slaves. As this 
takes place, a lion is seen in a cage as he is being fed human 
parts, while vultures tear at the remains of a pile of corpses. 
Other slaves are exercising their skills as one is seen getting 
impaled with an arrow.]

PROXIMO
I am Proximo. I shall be closer to you for the next few days, 
which will be the last of your miserable lives, than that bitch 
of a mother that brought you screaming into this world. I did not 
pay good money for you for your company, I paid it so that I 
could profit from your death and as your mother was there at your 
beginning, so I shall be there at your end. And when you die, and 
die you shall, your transition shall be to the sound of 
[applauding]
 ...Gladiators, I salute you. 

[SCENE CHANGE - Training at Proximo's camp as each slave goes up 
for a test of skill. Proximo can be heard calling out "Red" ... 
"Yellow".]

[The next fighter is Juba who picks up the wooden sword given to 
them for their testing and fiercely fights back as Hagen tests 
him.]

HAGEN
Good.

PROXIMO
Red 
[Juba looks at Hagen with honour at having won red.]

HAGEN
Spaniard! 
[Maximus curiously looks at Hagen, walks up and tosses the sword 
to the ground --Maximus refuses to fight. With Proximo's 
approval, Hagen slams his sword into Maximus' stomach causing 
Maximus to collapse, but he stands back up in defiance. Hagen 
hits him a second time and Maximus falls to the ground. Proximo 
stops Hagen as he is about to make the third blow, calling out 
"That is enough for the moment. His time will come." Maximus 
looks at Hagen with a slight grin and turns and walks away.]

HAGEN
Next. 

[SCENE CHANGE - where the slaves are kept, Juba kneels at the 
doorway, looks in at Maximus, the "Spaniard", and asks ... ]

JUBA
Spaniard, why don't you fight? We all have to fight. 
[Maximus looks at Juba, as he continues to scrape the Legion Mark 
(SPQR) from his arm with a sharp stone. The pain of his efforts 
clearly read in his expression.]

JUBA
Is that a sign of your gods? 

[Maximus nods, with a slight sense of humour at the question.]

JUBA
Will that not anger them? 

[Maximus nods again, his smile very wry as he continues to 
painfully scrape the insignia from his flesh.]

[SCENE CHANGE - The slaves, shackled together to a pole, walk 
through the market place where dyed red yarn hangs overhead, 
dripping onto them as they make their way to the arena. A white 
bull is seen with red dye poured along its back. Proximo walks 
under a large umbrella, to protect him from the dripping dye.]

HAGEN 
[to Maximus]
 
The gods favour you. Red is the gods' colour. You will need their 
help today. 

[At the arena, under the bleachers, the crowd can be heard 
stamping their feet, cheering. Proximo gives the gladiators a 
talk of encouragement (after all, they are there to make him 
money) before they go out for their first fight. "Some of you are 
thinking you won't fight, some that you can't. They all say that 
until they are out there. Thrust this into another man's flesh" 
demonstrating with a sword "and they will applaud and love you 
for that. You...you may begin to love them for that." He slams 
the blade into the table. "Ultimately, we're all dead men, sadly 
we cannot choose how, BUT we can decide how we meet that end in 
order that we are remembered as men."]

[Maximus listens intently, he bends down and picks up a handful 
of dirt, rubbing it between his hands. He has decided to fight. 
He will not lose the honour of being a man. They are paired off - 
red with yellow. Maximus is paired with Juba. Hagen is paired 
with a frail and frightened slave. Standing in the gateway before 
they enter the arena, the frightened slave in front of Maximus 
loses control from fear and relieves himself down his leg. 
Maximus views this and steps back. Hagen is seen closing his 
eyes, perhaps in prayer before he enters.]

[The door to the arena is thrown open and the first fighter (with 
spiked hair) runs face first into the morning star which is swung 
by one of the armoured opponents. Blood splatters everywhere. The 
fighters pan out and everyone runs into the arena. Proximo runs 
to the edge of the arena to look down onto his fighters--sizing 
them up for skill. Juba starts to follow an opponent but Maximus 
quickly takes control of the fight, pulling Juba back. Meanwhile, 
Hagen is with the frightened slave who is screaming in fear and 
crouching down while Hagen fights. Then the opponent thrusts his 
sword into the frightened slave, who falls down dead. Hagen, 
needing to be free from the corpse, cuts away the chained hand 
and uses it to swing as a weapon.]

[As the fights continue, Hagen lifts and plants another opponent 
on the horns which adorn the arena. Maximus fights with his 
shield, Juba with a sword. When the final opponent is reached, 
Juba, is standing behind Maximus with his hand on Maximus' 
shoulder. The muscular opponent, heavily masked and carrying a 
trident, stands fiercely against Maximus and Juba. Maximus turns 
the trident back into the opponent and together, Maximus and Juba 
spear him in the gut. The opponent withdraws the trident from his 
own body and goes back on the attack. Maximus and Juba, working 
as one, run at the opponent, using the chain that joins them, to 
cut him at the throat, knocking him to the ground. Maximus, Juba 
and Hagen, and the remaining slaves, stand exhausted in the arena 
while the crowd roars.]

[SCENE CHANGE - grand view of Rome as seen from the steps of the 
Senate. The Roman troops have formed along the streets, people 
are cheering (yet there is a small faction seen angrily yelling 
in dispute). The senators stand at the steps of the Senate, 
waiting, Lucius at their side, as the new Caesar and Lucilla 
enter on chariot surrounded by Praetorian....]

GRACCHUS
He enters Rome like a conquering hero. But what has he conquered?

FALCO
Give him time. He's young. I think he could do very well.

GRACCHUS
For Rome or for you?

GRACCHUS
Go to your mother, Lucius. It's what she would want.

LUCIUS
Mother!

LUCILLA
Lucius. 
[Lucius and Lucilla embrace.]

COMMODUS
Senators.

FALCO
Rome greets her new Emperor. Your loyal subjects bid you welcome, 
Highness.

COMMODUS
Thank you, Falco, and for the loyal subjects. I trust they were 
not too expensive.

GRACCHUS
Rome rejoices in your return. There are many matters that require 
your attention. 

[SCENE CHANGE - to the Senate where all the senators are 
gathered. Senator Gracchus is speaking while Commodus, seemingly 
bored and gaining impatient, sits, twirling the tip of his sword 
on the marbled floor.]

GRACCHUS
Caesar, the Senate has prepared a series of protocol to address 
the many problems in the city, beginning with basic sanitation 
for the Greek quarter to combat the plague which is already 
springing up there. So... 
[As Gracchus continues with his speech, Commodus interrupts 
him....]

COMMODUS
Shhhhhh. Don't you see Gracchus. That's the very problem, isn't 
it. My father spent all his time at study, reading books, 
learning his philosophy. He spent his twilight hours reading 
scrolls from the Senate. All the while, the people were 
forgotten.

GRACCHUS
The Senate is the people, Sire, chosen from the people, to speak 
for the people.

COMMODUS
I doubt if many people eat so well as you do, Gracchus, or have 
such splendid mistresses as you, Gaius. I think I understand my 
own people.

GRACCHUS
Perhaps Caesar would be so kind as to teach us, out of his own 
extensive experience. 
[A slight laughter from the Senators is heard.]

COMMODUS
I call it love. The people are my children and I their father. I 
shall hold them to my bosom and embrace them tightly....

GRACCHUS 
[as he interrupts]

Have you ever embraced someone dying of plague, Sire? 

[Commodus stops. His sword held behind his head, with both hands, 
as though to be resting his head on it. Slowly turning around, he 
looks at Gracchus. Lucilla, sensing potential danger, rises to 
intervene. A lethal moment.]

COMMODUS
No. But if you interrupt me again, I assure you that you shall. 
[He leaves the Senate and returns to the palace.]

LUCILLA
Senator, my brother is very tired. Leave the list with me. Your 
Emperor will do all that Rome requires.

GRACCHUS
My lady, as always your lightest touch commands obedience. 

[SCENE CHANGE - at the Palace, Lucilla returning from the 
Senate.]

COMMODUS
Who are they to lecture me?

LUCILLA
Commodus, the senate has its uses.

COMMODUS
What uses? All they do is talk. It should be just and you, and 
Rome. 

LUCILLA
Don't even think it, Commodus. There has always been a senate....

COMMODUS
Rome has changed. It takes an Emperor to rule an empire.

LUCILLA
Of course, but leave the people their....

COMMODUS
Illusions?.

LUCILLA
...traditions.

COMMODUS
My father's war against the barbarians, he said himself it 
achieved nothing. But people still loved him.

LUCILLA
People always love victories.

COMMODUS
But why? They don't see the battles? What do they care about 
Germania?

LUCILLA
They care about the greatness of Rome.

COMMODUS
Greatness of Rome? But what is that?

LUCILLA
It's an idea, greatness. Greatness is a vision.

COMMODUS
Exactly. A vision. Do you not see, Lucilla? I will give the 
people a vision and they will love me for it. They will soon 
forget the tedious sermonizing of a few dry old men. I will give 
them the greatest vision of their lives. 

[SCENE CHANGE - between Gaius and Gracchus at a restaurant, 
discussing the games which Commodus revived to lure the mob. 
Outside can be seen a juggler, merchants calling out their wares, 
and the crowd visiting and moving about.]

GAIUS
Games! 150 days of games!

GRACCHUS
He's cleverer than I thought.

GAIUS
Clever? The whole of Rome would be laughing at him if they 
weren't in fear of his Praetorian.

GRACCHUS
Fear and wonder. A powerful combination.

GAIUS
Will the people really be seduced by that?

GRACCHUS
I think he knows what Rome is. Rome is the mob. He will conjure 
magic for them and they will be distracted. He will take away 
their freedom, and still they will roar. The beating heart of 
Rome is not the marble of the Senate, it is the sand of the 
Colosseum. He will give them death, and they will love him for 
it. 

[SCENE CHANGE...back at Zucchabar. The gladiators are sitting in 
a cage waiting for their turn to fight in the arena. "Spaniard, 
Spaniard, Spaniard" can be heard from the crowds-Maximus has 
gained the popularity of the crowd as well as a name for himself-
-Spaniard. Maximus stands and walks through the cage as the other 
gladiators call out "Spaniard", as he makes his way to the arena. 
Maximus enters the ring as the chants "Spaniard, Spaniard" 
continue. When Maximus steps through the door the crowd becomes 
silent, the opponents step back. Maximus pauses and slightly bows 
his head. Then he wades into them as the crowd cheers loudly. The 
opponents each wait to take on Maximus. Without hesitation, 
Maximus charges forward and machine-like and without emotion, 
takes on and disposes of each opponent, one at a time. The final 
opponent has his head cut off by Maximus as he uses two swords to 
scissor cut his neck.]

[Having quickly and soundly defeated his opposition, Maximus 
looks up at the crowd, bloody swords still in hand. He hurls one 
sword high into the stands, striking a table, startling all 
nearby. Then, calling out to the now silenced crowd, Maximus 
screams at them, "ARE YOU NOT ENTERTAINED??!! ARE YOU NOT 
ENTERTAINED??!! Is this not why you are here??" The crowd 
silenced, Maximus throws the other sword to the ground, spitting 
in disgust and begins to leave the arena. The crowd cheers 
uncontrollably. Maximus slows his pace, looking at them in 
amazement and curiosity. "Spaniard, Spaniard, Spaniard, 
Spaniard." ]

[SCENE CHANGE - At Proximo's quarters. Maximus standing nearby. 

PROXIMO
What do you want? Hmmmm? Girl? Boy? 

MAXIMUS
You sent for me? 
[Standing straight, as though at attention.]

PROXIMO
Yes I did. You are good, Spaniard, but you're not that good. You 
could be magnificent. 

MAXIMUS
I am required to kill so I kill. That is enough. 

PROXIMO
That's enough for the provinces but not for Rome 
[as he feeds his caged hyena]
. The young Emperor has arranged a series of spectacles to 
commemorate his father, Marcus Aurelius. I find that amusing 
since it was Marcus Aurelius, the wise, the all knowing Marcus 
Aurelius, who closed us down. So finally after 5 years of 
scratching a living in flea infested villages we are finally 
going back to where we belong, the Colosseum. 
[He breaths deeply, as though he could smell the Colosseum.]
 Oh you should see the Colosseum, Spaniard. 50,000 Romans 
watching every movement of your sword, willing you to make the 
killer blow. The silence before you strike, and the noise 
afterwards, it rises, rises up like...like...like a storm, as 
though you were the Thunder God himself. 

MAXIMUS
You were a gladiator? 

PROXIMO
Yes, I was 
[responding nervously but proudly in the memory of his time gone 
by]
.

MAXIMUS
You won your freedom? 

PROXIMO
Long time ago the old emperor Marcus Aurelius presented me with a 
Rudius - it's just a wooden sword, a symbol for your freedom. He 
touched me on the shoulder once, and I was free. 

MAXIMUS
You knew Marcus Aurelius? 
[Maximus asks loudly, laughing as he speaks, doubting that 
Proximo could have known such a man.]

PROXIMO
I did not say that I knew him. I said he touched me on the 
shoulder once. 

[Maximus comes closer to Proximo, lowering his voice as he 
speaks.]

MAXIMUS
You asked me what I want. I, too, want to stand in front of the 
Emperor, as you did. 

[Raising his left eyebrow.]

PROXIMO
Then listen to me. Learn from me. I wasn't the best because I 
killed quickly. I was the best because the crowd loved me. Win 
the crowd, win your freedom.  

[Maximus stands at attention as the soldier he was for so many 
years, but at the thought of freedom he is indifferent for 
without his family, what is freedom?]

MAXIMUS
I will win the crowd. I will give them something they have never 
seen before. 

PROXIMO
Haaa! So, Spaniard, we shall go to Rome together and have bloody 
adventures and the great whore will suckle us until we are fat 
and happy and can suckle no more. And then, when enough men have 
died, perhaps you will have your freedom. Here, use this.... 
[Proximo tosses Maximus a body shield of armour. As Maximus 
leaves, Proximo turns to look out the window, raising his arms in 
jubilee.]

[SCENE CHANGE to a rooftop, the slaves talk with each other. Juba 
and Maximus, alone, together....]

JUBA
It is somewhere out there, my country, my home. My wife is 
preparing food. My daughters carry water from the river. Will I 
ever see them again. I think not. 

MAXIMUS
Do you believe that you will see them again when you die? 

JUBA
I think so, but then, I will die soon. They will not die for many 
years. I will have to wait. 

MAXIMUS
But you would...wait? 

JUBA
Of course. 

MAXIMUS
You see, my wife and my son are already waiting for me. 

JUBA
You will meet them again. But not yet. 
[Juba takes Maximus' hand as if to assure him that the time will 
come.]
 Not yet. 

MAXIMUS
Not yet. Not yet. 

[SCENE CHANGE - on the road to Rome, the wagon carrying the 
gladiators rolls along while children run to the side of the road 
to witness the caravan. In the distant, Rome and the Colosseum.]

[Gladiators have arrived in Rome for their first time. As their 
wagon pulls into the gladiator school, the guard opens the wagon 
gates and they disembark, gazing in awe at the Colosseum. Proximo 
walks up to the statue of Mars, kissing his hand and then 
planting the kiss on the feet of the statue. "Good to see you 
again, old friend.... Bring me fortune." The gladiators, stare up 
at the Colosseum....]

JUBA
Did you ever see anything like that before? I didn't know man 
could build such things.

PROXIMO 
[He walks towards the gladiators, looking at Maximus]
 
Win the crowd. 

[SCENE CHANGE TO THE PALACE - Commodus is standing over the 
sleeping Lucius studying him as he sleeps. Lucilla walks up.]

COMMODUS
He sleeps so well because he is loved. 

LUCILLA
Come brother, it is late. 

[Lucilla and Commodus step away and continue their talk. Commodus 
leans over his desk.]

COMMODUS
I will make Rome the wonder of the ages. That is what Gracchus 
and his friends don't understand. All my desires are splitting my 
head into pieces.

LUCILLA

[Has mixed a powdered drink.]
 Commodus, drink this tonic.

COMMODUS
I think the time is almost right? I could announce the 
dissolution of the senate in celebration of our father. Do you 
think I should...are the people are ready?

LUCILLA
I think you need your rest now.

COMMODUS
Will you stay with me?

LUCILLA
Still afraid of the dark, brother?

COMMODUS
Still? Always. Stay with me tonight?

LUCILLA
You know I won't.

COMMODUS
Then kiss me. 
[She kisses his forehead.]

LUCILLA
Sleep, brother. 

[SCENE CHANGE - As gladiators are taken to the Colosseum, they 
walk through the crowded streets, shackled together, beautiful 
prostitutes throw their arms around them, whispering in their 
ears as they pass. Maximus, with a look of embarrassment and 
amusement, walk past them. Outside the Colosseum, crowds are 
betting and posting their marks on a chalk board. Proximo & 
Cassius discuss the upcoming fight.]

PROXIMO
The Emperor wants battles and I don't want to sacrifice my best 
fighters.

CASSIUS
The crowd wants battles so the Emperor gives them battles. You 
get the battle of Carthage.

PROXIMO
The massacre of Carthage! Why don't you get the beggars and 
thieves from the prison?

CASSIUS
We've done that.

PROXIMO
If you're going to give away the best gladiators in the empire, 
then I want double the rates.

CASSIUS
You will get your contract rates or you will get your contract 
canceled. If you don't like it, you can crawl back down that shit 
hole that you came from. 

[SCENE CHANGE - The Legionnaires of Scipio Africanus battle is in 
preparation. Young Lucius is walking along the cells where the 
gladiators are placed on display for the crowd's inspection. 
Lucius stops in front of Proximo's group and motions to Maximus, 
where he is seated at the back of his cell. With a glint of 
surprise and curiosity, Maximus rises and moves toward Lucius, 
placing his hands on the bars, leaning down towards the boy.]

LUCIUS
Gladiator, are you the one they call Spaniard? 

MAXIMUS
Yes. 

LUCIUS
They said you were a giant. They said you can crush a man's skull 
with one hand. 

MAXIMUS
Man's? No. A boy's...
[he says, teasingly]

LUCIUS

[Eyeing Maximus' chest armour he asks,]
 They have good horses in Spain? 

MAXIMUS
Some of the best. This is Argento. This is Scarto 
[pointing to each horse]
. They were my horses. They were taken from me?. 

LUCIUS
I like you, Spaniard. I shall cheer for you. 

MAXIMUS
They let you watch the games? 

LUCIUS
My uncle says it makes me strong. 

MAXIMUS
And what does your father say? 

LUCIUS
My father is dead. 

SERVANT
Master Lucius, it is time. 

LUCIUS
I have to go. 

MAXIMUS
Your name is Lucius? 

LUCIUS
Lucius Verus. After my father. 
[Realizing he has come closer to Commodus, Maximus withdraws into 
the corner, looking to see who might be in the crowd.]

[SCENE CHANGE -In the bowels of the Colosseum. As one team of 
gladiators descends on the platform lift, Proximo's gladiators 
are selecting helmets and receiving spears. Maximus selects an 
ominous mask-like helmet that covers his face leaving his eyes to 
pierce through. The head gladiator calls out instructions before 
they enter the arena. "When the Emperor enters, raise your 
weapons, salute him and then speak together. Face the Emperor, 
don't turn your back on him. Go and die with honour." Maximus 
takes a deep breath as the gladiators enter the arena. Trumpets 
are heard . The crowd is cheering madly. The gladiators look up, 
amazed at the overwhelming size of the arena and crowd. The crowd 
calls out, "Caesar, Caesar, Caesar". The gladiators position 
themselves in front of Caesar, "We who are about to die, salute 
you". Only one gladiator refuses to make such a salute -- 
Maximus.]

CASSIUS 
[the orator]
 
On this day we reach back to hallowed antiquity to bring you a 
recreation of a second Fall of Mighty Carthage. On the barren 
straits of Zama, there stood the invincible armies of the 
Barbarian Hannibal. Ferocious mercenaries and warriors from all 
brute nations bent on merciless destruction conquest. Your 
Emperor is pleased to give you THE BARBARIAN HORDE! 

[On the arena floor, Maximus talks to the Gladiators, instructing 
them.]

MAXIMUS
Anyone here been in the army? 

FELLOW-FIGHTER #1
Yes 

FELLOW-FIGHTER #2
I served with you in Vindobona. 

MAXIMUS
You can help me. Whatever comes out of these gates, we have a 
better chance of survival if we work together. Do you understand? 
We stay together, we survive. 

[Cassius then introduces the "LEGIONNAIRES OF SCIPIO AFRICANUS" 
as they barrel into the arena on their glorious chariots. Shouts 
from the Legionnaires can be heard as they immediately begin to 
kill the "Barbarians". Shouts from Maximus can also be heard - 
"Come together...lock your shields, stay as one...hold...hold as 
one". And then, "Well done" as they successfully defend 
themselves from the uneven attack. ]

[ As a chariot heads towards them, Maximus is heard calling out 
as they huddle together "Hold. Diamond, diamond." The Barbarians 
move towards the chariot as it approaches and with that 
manoeuver, the chariot is overturned and the Legionnaires are 
sent flying to their death. The crowd cheers uncontrollably.]

[ Hagen gets an arrow to the calf and unknowingly stands in the 
way of a charging chariot. Maximus calls out to him, then runs 
and knocks him out of the way, saving his life. Without 
hesitation, Maximus continues to call out orders, "This column to 
the chariot. This column stay with me." Maximus climbs upon one 
of the chariot horses that has been unharnessed and rides with 
the chariots, attacking the Legionnaires one by one until most 
have been disabled or killed. The roar of Maximus' attack can be 
heard and he strikes the Legionnaires. All the while, Commodus 
sits on his throne, clearly enjoying himself like a child. His 
mouth falls open and his tongue laps the air. He tosses his head 
side to side, laughing in glee.]

[On the arena floor, Hagen is back in place, fighting the 
Legionnaires. As Maximus rides, Juba cries out "Maximus" as he 
tosses him one of the Legionnaires' sword. Catching the sword, 
Maximus continues to call orders to the Barbarians, "Single 
column, single column..." as they successfully attack and kill 
the remaining Legionnaires. Having won the battle, Maximus is 
seen magnificently atop the white horse, sword raised in triumph 
as the cheers from the Barbarians and crowd explode.]

[Following the battle, in Caesar's box... ]

 COMMODUS
My history's a little hazy Cassius, but aren't the Barbarians 
supposed to lose the battle of Carthage!!

CASSIUS
Yes, Sire. Forgive me, Sire. 

COMMODUS
No, I rather enjoy surprises. Who is that? 

CASSIUS
They call him the Spaniard, Sire. 

COMMODUS
I think I'll meet him.

CASSIUS
Yes, Sire. 

[On the arena floor, Praetorian enter and the gladiators stand 
ready to defend themselves.]

PRAETORIAN
Drop your weapons. 

[Maximus nods to the gladiators and they drop their weapons.]

PRAETORIAN
Gladiator, the Emperor has asked for you. 

MAXIMUS
I'm at the Emperor's service. 

[Commodus enters the arena. Maximus eyes an arrow in the dirt 
amongst the bloodied debris, kneels to pick it up. The gladiators 
follow Maximus' action and also kneel.]

COMMODUS
Rise, rise.

[Lucius enters behind Commodus and Maximus looks disappointed. He 
does not want to attempt an attack on Commodus with the boy so 
close.]

COMMODUS
Your fame is well deserved, Spaniard. I don't think there has 
been a gladiator to match you, as for this young man 
[Commodus cradling Lucius in front him]
, he insists you are Hector reborn, or was it Hercules. Why 
doesn't the hero reveal himself and tell us all your real name. 
You do have a name...? 

MAXIMUS
My name is gladiator. 

[Maximus slowly turns around and begins to walk back to the other 
gladiators.]

COMMODUS
How dare you show your back to me, SLAVE. You will remove your 
helmet and tell me your name... 
[The Praetorian take a ready-stand, and the gladiators, without 
weapons, move forward ready to fight with Maximus. Maximus stops, 
takes a deep breath, removes his helmet, and turns to face 
Commodus.]

MAXIMUS
My name is Maximus Decimus Meridius. Commander of the armies of 
the North, general of the Felix Legions, loyal servant to the 
true emperor Marcus Aurelius. Father to a murdered son, husband 
to a murdered wife, and I will have my vengeance in this life or 
the next. 

[Commodus is clearly in shock and without words. Quintus stands 
ready. Commodus stumbles in his actions, slightly turning to 
Quintus as though seeking help. Quintus orders "Arms" and the 
Praetorian pull their swords. Meanwhile, at Caesar's box, Lucilla 
has risen to her feet in disbelieving the sight of Maximus and 
relieved that he is still alive.]

CROWD
Live, Live, Live, Live...! 

COMMODUS
Shhh! 
[--in an effort to calm the people. Commodus extends his hand, 
struggling to give the thumbs up for he would much prefer to give 
the thumbs down. Extending his thumb up, to the pleasure and 
cheers of the crowd, Commodus turns and leaves, sending a look to 
Maximus as though to say this is not over, and the Praetorian 
leave, as well. As Maximus looks at Quintus, he holds his fist to 
his heart and slightly bows his head, acknowledging an old 
friend, an old soldier. Quintus stares back and slowly backs away 
from Maximus.]

[Maximus raises his helmet in victory and the crowd and other 
gladiators cheer wildly. Maximus and the other gladiators exit 
the arena to be returned to the underground cells. They are 
lowered on the platform as the other gladiators salute the 
winning "Barbarians", and in particular, Maximus, their cheers 
and shouts  "Maximus, Maximus, Maximus" causing the walls and 
floors to shake. Maximus stands in the midst of all the 
gladiators who triumphantly fought and beat the Legionnaires. A 
slightly smaller man, yet appearing larger than all.]

[SCENE CHANGES back to the Palace where Commodus is signing 
papers. Lucilla walks in. Without looking up, Commodus asks 
Lucilla, Why is he still alive?]

LUCILLA
I don't know.

COMMODUS
He shouldn't be alive. This vexes me. I am terribly vexed. 
[He sits back in his chair.]
 I did what I had to do. Had father had his way, the empire would 
have been torn apart. You do see that?

COMMODUS
What did you feel when you saw him?

LUCILLA

[Holding back emotion, she replies,]
 I felt nothing.

COMMODUS
He wounded you deeply, didn't he?

LUCILLA
No more than I wounded him.

COMMODUS
They lied to me in Germania. They told me he was dead. If they 
lie to me they don't respect me. If they don't respect me then 
how can they ever love me?

LUCILLA
Then you must let the legions know that treachery will not go 
unpunished. 

COMMODUS
Oh, Sister, I wouldn't want to be your enemy.

LUCILLA 
[pauses and then asks]

What will you do? 

[Commodus looks back saying nothing, holding his finger to his 
lips as though to say "Shhhh".]

[SCENE CHANGE to the cells where the gladiators are. Maximus is 
taken from his cell to another where he is chained. The guards 
leave and out from a dark corner appears Lucilla.]

LUCILLA
Rich matrons pay well to be pleasured by the bravest champions. 

MAXIMUS 
[Viciously responds]

I knew your brother would send assassins. I didn't realize he 
would send his best. 
[He charges at her, the chains restraining him.]

LUCILLA
Maximus, he doesn't know. 

MAXIMUS
My family was burned and crucified while they were still alive. 

LUCILLA
I knew nothing....

MAXIMUS
Don't lie to me!

LUCILLA
I wept for them. 
[Maximus quickly reaches out and grabs her by the throat.]

MAXIMUS
As you wept for your father? As you wept for your father? 

LUCILLA
I have been living in a prison of fear since that day. To be 
unable to mourn your father for fear of your brother. To live in 
terror every moment of every day, because your son is heir to the 
throne. Oh, I have wept. 

MAXIMUS
My son was innocent. 

LUCILLA
So is mine. Must my son die, too, before you can trust me? 
[Maximus releases his hold on her throat]

MAXIMUS
What does it matter if I trust you or not? 

LUCILLA
The gods have spared you. Don't you understand? Today I saw a 
slave become more powerful than the Emperor of Rome. 

MAXIMUS
The gods have spared me? I am at their mercy with the power only 
to amuse a mob. 

LUCILLA
That is power. The mob is Rome. And while Commodus controls them 
he controls everything. Listen to me. My brother has enemies, 
most of all in the senate. But while the people follow him, no 
one would dare stand up to him until you.

MAXIMUS
They oppose him, yet they do nothing.

LUCILLA
There are some politicians who have dedicated their lives to 
Rome. One man above all. If I can arrange it, will you meet him? 

MAXIMUS
Do you not understand? I may die in this cell tonight or in the 
arena tomorrow. I am a slave! What possible difference can I 
make?

LUCILLA
This man wants what you want.

MAXIMUS 
[Roars back,]

Then have him kill Commodus!

LUCILLA

I knew a man once. A noble man. A man of principles, who loved my 
father and my father loved him. This man served Rome well. 

MAXIMUS
That man is gone. Your brother did his work well.

LUCILLA
Let me help you. 

MAXIMUS 
[lowers his voice in nearly a whisper and steps closer to 
Lucilla]

Yes. You can help me. Forget you ever knew me. Never come here 
again. Guard! The lady has finished with me. 
[Lucilla's eyes slightly tear as she stands helplessly, staring 
at Maximus.]

[SCENE CHANGE to the gladiator school. Gladiators sit at a table 
playing a game with a cobra snake. Maximus, Juba and Hagen sit at 
a table, together. Juba is eating his bread and beans.]

HAGEN
Maximus, you commanded legions? Had many victories?

MAXIMUS
Yes. 

HAGEN
In Germania? 

MAXIMUS
In many countries. 

[The cook calls out "General" and Maximus goes to him where he is 
handed a bowl of beans. Maximus returns to the table. Sensing the 
watchful eye of Juba, he looks up to see Juba shaking his head 
"no". Maximus holds back and does not eat the food. Hagen, seeing 
that Maximus is cautious about the food, takes his own spoon and 
dips it into Maximus' bowl, and then placing the spoon in his own 
mouth. Hagen suddenly begins to gasp and choke, he grabs his 
throat and then begins to laugh. Juba and Maximus laugh with 
relief. Maximus returns to his food but looks up at Juba with a 
look of doubt...not for that moment but for what lies ahead.]

JUBA
You have a great name. He must kill your name before he kills 
you. 

[SCENE CHANGE - at the Colosseum, as the senators are gathering 
for the upcoming fight .]

FALCO
Senator Gracchus. I don't often see you enjoying the pleasures of 
the vulgar crowd.

GRACCHUS
Well. I do not pretend to be a man of the people, Senator. But I 
do try to be a man for the people. 

[Wagons enter the arena tossing bread and fruit at the crowd. 
Caesar enters the arena, accepting the cheers from the crowd. 
Atop in the stands, stands Cassius, as he introduces the upcoming 
fight while the crowd calls out, "Caesar, Caesar, Caesar."]

CASSIUS
People of Rome. On the 4th day of Antioch, we can celebrate the 
64th day of the games. And in his majestic charity, the Emperor 
has named this day to favour the people of Rome with an 
historical final match. Returning to the Colosseum today after 
five years in retirement, Caesar, is pleased to bring you the 
only undefeated champion in Roman history, the legendary...Tigris 
of Gaul! 

[Out from the tunnel comes Tigris on his grand chariot, wearing a 
full headed, silver helmet. And in the crowd Cicero, Maximus' 
servant from the Germania battle, sits anxiously, waiting to see 
Maximus.]

[SCENE CHANGE to the bowels of the Colosseum where the gladiators 
are held as they wait their turn in the arena. Maximus stands in 
the tunnel, shadows cast darkly upon him, as he practices, agile 
as he is, with his sword awaiting his entrance to the arena. 
Proximo, standing at the bottom of the tunnel with the other 
fighters, calls up to Maximus and Maximus calls back.]

PROXIMO
He knows too well how to manipulate a mob.

MAXIMUS
Marcus Aurelius had a dream that was Rome, Proximo. This is not 
it. This is not it! 

PROXIMO
Marcus Aurelius is dead, Maximus. We mortals are but shadows and 
dust, shadows and Dust, Maximus. 

[Maximus stands ready to enter the arena, the voice of the 
announcer, Cassius, can be heard, "Representing the training 
lyceum of Antonius Proximo, Caesar is proud to give you Aelius 
Maximus." With that, Maximus trots out on the arena floor, shield 
in one hand, sword in the other. The crowd cheers.]

[Commodus, Lucilla, Lucius and Quintus watch from Caesar's box as 
Maximus and Tigris are introduced to the crowd. On the arena 
floor, Maximus plants his sword in the sand and bends down in his 
ritual way, to collect in his hands a sampling of dirt. Cicero is 
again seen in the stands, this time, slightly smiling, relieved 
to see the General. At Caesar's box, Lucilla holds back all 
emotion. The crowd calling out, "Maximus, Maximus, Maximus."]

COMMODUS
They embrace him like he's one of their own.

LUCILLA
The mob is fickle brother. He'll be forgotten in a month.

COMMODUS
No, much sooner than that. It has been arranged. 

[Back on the arena floor, Tigris turns to Caesar's box, with 
swords crossed, he bows, "We who are about to die salute you." 
Maximus stands by, showing no salute whatsoever. As Maximus gets 
ready to fight the large doors to the arena are thrown open, 
surprising Maximus. From each door emerges a team of men, who run 
into the arena. Each team picks up a chain from the sand. Maximus 
becomes distracted. Tigris kicks sand into Maximus' face and 
begins the fight. As the fight continues and as Maximus is thrown 
to the ground, a trap door opens and out jumps a large tiger, 
pouncing at the fighting gladiators. Maximus is now having to 
escape the claws of the tigers as he battles Tigris. Maximus' 
roars can be heard as he does battle. In the background can be 
heard "loose, loose, loose" and "pull, pull, pull" as the 
handlers coordinate their efforts in handling each of the tigers 
that are now on the arena floor growling and charging at 
Maximus.]

[Maximus manages to disarm Tigris, switching his sword from one 
hand to the other, Maximus stands ready to finish off Tigris. 
Suddenly, a fourth tiger jumps out of a trap door and jumps at 
Maximus. In that split second, Maximus turns and the tiger is 
speared with his sword. Maximus is thrown to the sand as the 
large beast lays atop him. Maximus stabs the beast repeatedly, 
killing it. The crowds cheer wildly. Tigris moves in for an 
attack. Maximus, on his back with the beast still on him, manages 
to grab Tigris' own hatchet and with great force spikes him in 
the foot. Tigris bends over in pain, blood pouring from the 
opening of his mask. Maximus stands and kicks Tigris over to the 
ground. He is finished. The crowd cheers "kill, kill, kill". With 
ax in hand, standing over the fallen Tigris, Maximus looks up at 
Commodus. The Emperor is clearly disappointed that his plan has 
failed. Commodus stands, arm extended and slowly shows a "thumb 
down". Maximus unmasks Tigris and lifts the hatchet over his 
head, ready to 

[Maximus is about to exit the arena, the Praetorian enter and 
encircle him as Commodus enters the arena to boos from the crowd 
and approaches Maximus.]

COMMODUS
What am I going to do with you, you simply won't...die. Are we so 
different, you and I? You take life when you have to, as I do. 
[Exhausted from the fight, Maximus stares at him.]

MAXIMUS
I only have one life left to take and then it is done. 

COMMODUS
Then take it now. 

[Maximus turns to walk away....]

COMMODUS
They tell me your son (Maximus slowly turns to him) squealed like 
a girl when they nailed him to the cross.... And your wife, 
moaned like a whore when they ravaged her again, and again, and 
again. 

MAXIMUS 
[ exhibiting extreme but calm restraint]

The time for honouring yourself will soon be at an end, Highness. 

[Maximus slowly turns away from Commodus, the Praetorian step 
aside and let Maximus pass. He leaves the arena.]

CROWD
Maximus, Maximus, Maximus.... 

[SCENE CHANGE to the streets as Maximus is taken by two guards, 
back to the gladiator school. They pass through the streets 
adjacent the Colosseum. A large crowd of fans are waiting for 
him, chanting his name and waving banners. Amongst the crowd is 
Cicero. Cicero tries to catch the attention of Maximus, his arm 
stretched out, holding a small leather pouch.]

CICERO
General! General! 

[At last, Maximus sees him and with joy, calls back "Cicero!" 
Cicero runs through the crowd, trying to get closer to his 
master. He manages to get in touch with him, hiding behind a 
prostitute trying to get Maximus' attention.]

MAXIMUS
Where are you camped?

CICERO
Ostia !

MAXIMUS
Tell the men the general lives. Find me, find me! 
[As the guards pull Maximus away from Cicero, Cicero manages to 
give Maximus the pouch he was carrying. Maximus hides it inside 
his palms.]

[Later, in his cell, Maximus opens the leather pouch handed to 
him by Cicero, inside he finds the two figurines of his wife and 
son. He kisses them tenderly, looking at the figurine of his 
wife, as though she were there. Juba approaches.]

JUBA
Can they hear you? 

[Maximus turns his head towards Juba, his eyes moist from the 
happiness of his reunion with his family through the figurines 
and responds to Juba.]

MAXIMUS
Who?

JUBA
Your family, in the after life?

MAXIMUS
Oh, yes.

JUBA
What do you say to them ?

MAXIMUS
To my boy, I tell him I will see him again soon, and to keep his 
heels down when he's riding his horse. 
[Maximus continues with a smile,]
 To my wife...that is not your business. 

[Together they laugh. Maximus holds tight his belongings, sending 
a look of victory to Juba. A look of peace on his face as he 
clutches the figurines.]

[SCENE CHANGE - back at the Palace, Commodus, in a child-like 
pouty fashion, is talking with Senator Falco.]

COMMODUS
And now they love Maximus for his mercy, so I can't kill him or 
it makes him even more merciful. The whole thing is like a 
great...nightmare.

FALCO
He is defying you. His every victory is an act of defiance, the 
mob sees this, and so do the Senate. Every day he lives they grow 
bolder. Kill him!

COMMODUS
No! I will not make a martyr of him.

FALCO
I have been told of a certain sea snake which has a very unusual 
method of attracting its prey. It will lie at the bottom of the 
ocean as if wounded, then its enemies will approach and yet it 
will lie quite still and then its enemies will take little bites 
of it and yet it remains still.

COMMODUS
So, we will lie still and let our enemies come to us and nibble. 
...have every senator followed. 

[SCENE CHANGE - The following day, gladiators are training inside 
the gladiator school. Maximus walks through the camp, making his 
way to a gate where the crowds watch the gladiators on display. 
Maximus passes a guard who calls him by name. Maximus nods in 
recognition of the guard. (Maximus is admired by all, even those 
who watch guard over him.) Maximus reaches the gate where Cicero 
is waiting. Placing his hand behind Cicero's head, he says]

MAXIMUS
Cicero, my old friend! I thought I had seen you for the last 
time.

CICERO
We thought you were dead!

MAXIMUS
Close. How long have the men been in Ostia?

CICERO
All winter.

MAXIMUS
How do they look?

CICERO
Fat and bored.

MAXIMUS
Who is in command?

CICERO
Some fool from Rome

MAXIMUS
How soon do you think they could be ready to fight? 

CICERO
For you, tomorrow.

MAXIMUS
I need you to do something for me. 

[SCENE CHANGE -- In the city at the bazaar, as Cicero waits, 
anxiously looking about the street, a children's play is underway 
-- A Cassius impersonator entertains the crowd, "Come! Be seated. 
If you haven't been in the arena, you can see it from here. The 
Giant Maximus is defeating our Emperor Commodus. What are we do 
to?" The crowd laughs and cheers.]

[Suddenly, Cicero eyes Lucilla as she is carried on her litter 
through the crowd. He runs to meet them. ]

CICERO
M'lady! I served your father at Vindebona!

GUARD
Back!

CICERO
M'lady, I served your father at Vindebona.

GUARD
Back!

CICERO
And then served the General Maximus. I serve him still!

LUCILLA 
[to her escort]

Stop! Stop! Stand back!
CICERO kneeling beside her, whispering]

The General sends word, he will meet your politician.

LUCILLA 
[gives him two golden coins]

For your loyalty, soldier. 

CICERO
Thank you M'lady. 

[SCENE CHANGE - Gladiator cells. Maximus has been brought to a 
central room by Proximo.]

LUCILLA
Leave us. Senator Gracchus. 

GRACCHUS

[Enters the room]

General. I hope my coming here today is enough evidence that you 
can trust me.]

MAXIMUS
The Senate is with you? 

GRACCHUS
The senate? Yes I can speak for them. 

MAXIMUS
You can buy my freedom and smuggle me out of Rome?

GRACCHUS
To what end?

MAXIMUS
Get me outside the city. Have fresh horses ready to take me to 
Ostia. My army is encamped there. By nightfall of the second day 
I shall return at the head of 5,000 men. 

LUCILLA
But the legion is under new commanders, Loyal to Commodus. 

MAXIMUS
When my men see me alive you shall see where their loyalties 
lies. 

GRACCHUS
This is madness. No army has entered Rome for 100 years. I will 
not trade one dictatorship for another. 

MAXIMUS
Time for half measures and talk is over. Senator. ... 

GRACCHUS
So, after your glorious coup, what then? You will take your 5,000 
warriors and leave? 

MAXIMUS
I will leave. The soldiers will stay for your protection, under 
the command of the senate. 

GRACCHUS
So, once all of Rome is yours, you'll just give it back to the 
people. Tell me why? 

MAXIMUS 
[he turns to Lucilla]
 
Because that was the last wish of a dying man. 
[He turns back to Gracchus.]
 I will kill Commodus, the fate of Rome, I leave to you. 

GRACCHUS
Marcus Aurelius trusted you. His daughter trusts you. I will 
trust you. But we have little time. Give me two days and I will 
buy your freedom. And you, you stay alive. Or I will be dead. Now 
I must go. 

[SCENE CHANGE to Proximo's quarters where Maximus is speaking 
with him...]

PROXIMO
This won't work. The emperor knows too much. And as for me, it's 
becoming dangerous. 
[A soldier is seen outside, attempting to overhear their talk.]

MAXIMUS
You will be paid on my return. I give you my word.

PROXIMO
Your word! What if you don't return?

MAXIMUS
Do you remember what it was to have trust, Proximo? 

PROXIMO
Who am I to trust? 

MAXIMUS
I will kill Commodus. 

PROXIMO
Why do I want that. He makes me rich. I know, Maximus, that you 
are a man of your word, General. I know that you would die for 
honour. You would die for Rome. You would die for the memory of 
your ancestors. But I, on the other hand, am an entertainer. 
Guard! 

MAXIMUS 
[as he leaves Proximo, he turns back to say...]
 
He killed the man who set you free. 

[SCENE CHANGE - Senator Gracchus is seen at his home feeding 
chickens and ducks. A servant is near and warns the senator, 
"Praetorian, Master" as he sees their approach.]

[SCENE CHANGE - Lucilla walks into the Palace and finds Commodus. 
She attempts to leave but he stops her.]

COMMODUS
Where have you been? I sent for you.

LUCILLA
Please, brother. What troubles you?

COMMODUS
Does Gracchus have a new lover?

LUCILLA
I don't know.

COMMODUS
I thought you had seen him. He infects everyone like a putrid 
fever. For the health of Rome, the Senate must be bled and he 
will be bled too, very soon.

LUCILLA
But not tonight.

COMMODUS
Do you remember what our father once said? It's a dream, a 
frightful dream...life is. Do you think that is true?

LUCILLA
I don't know.

COMMODUS
I think it is. And I have only you to share it with. 
[Lucilla comes closer, to comfort him. Commodus lays his head 
against her shoulder. He leans her back and lays her on the bed. 
With terror in her eyes, she lays still, fearful of what might 
happen. Commodus gently puts his finger to her mouth and tells 
her "open your mouth". Hesitantly she opens her mouth slightly as 
he places his finger to her lips and then to his. He presses his 
head to her shoulder and says "you know I love you." She replies, 
"and I love you." She lays still, her fear mounting at the 
thought of what may occur but Commodus soon lays his head down 
and falls asleep. Lucilla gently and quietly gets up and leaves.]

[SCENE CHANGE - back at Proximo's as he brings Lucilla to 
Maximus' cell. "Congratulations, General. You have very 
persuasive friends", Proximo calls to Maximus. Proximo barks 
orders to the other gladiators to leave. They look to Maximus for 
approval and he gives it to them with a nod of the head.]

LUCILLA
My brother has had Gracchus arrested. We dared not wait any 
longer. You must leave tonight. Proximo will come at midnight and 
take you to the gate. Your servant Cicero will be waiting with 
horses. 

MAXIMUS
You have done all this?

LUCILLA
Yes.

MAXIMUS
You risk too much. 

LUCILLA
I have much to pay for.

MAXIMUS
You have nothing to pay for. You love your son. You are strong 
for him. 

LUCILLA
I am tired of being strong. My brother hates all the world. And 
you, most of all. 

MAXIMUS
Because your father chose me. 

LUCILLA
No, because my father loved you. And because I loved you. 

MAXIMUS
A long time ago. 
[Maximus tenderly takes her hand and kisses it.]

LUCILLA
Was I very different then? 

MAXIMUS (Gently stroking her face)
You laughed more. 

LUCILLA
I have felt alone all my life, except with you. I must go.

MAXIMUS
Yes. 
[They exchange a long tender kiss.]

[SCENE CHANGE - at the Palace, Lucius playing swords with the 
tall African servants, "there, there, there, there and there, and 
I've got you," proclaims Lucius. Commodus is awakened from his 
sleep, goes to Lucius and takes one of the wooden swords from the 
servant. He begins to play swords with Lucius.]

COMMODUS
Isn't it late to be playing legionnaire?

LUCIUS
I am not a legionnaire.

COMMODUS
Not a legionnaire?

LUCIUS
I am a gladiator.

COMMODUS
A gladiator? Gladiators only fight in the games. Wouldn't you 
prefer to be a brave Roman warrior like Julius Caesar? 

LUCIUS
I am Maximus, the savior of Rome. 
[Commodus kneels in front of Lucius. His wooden sword slipping on 
the marble floor.]

COMMODUS
The savior of Rome. And who said that? 
[Lucius whispers in his ear. Commodus holds him tighter and 
tighter as he hears.]

[SCENE CHANGE - Lucilla returns to the palace and asks her 
servant where Lucius is. She replies, "He's with the Emperor, 
M'lady." She quickly leaves in search of Lucius. She walks to 
Commodus' room and as she approaches, she can hear Commodus 
talking with Lucius. Lucilla slows down to listen and then 
quickly walks to join them as she hears them talk.]

LUCIUS
...she couldn't have.

COMMODUS
Yes, she did. She took it from a basket, pressed it to her 
breast, right here above the heart. hissss 

LUCIUS
And it bit her in the breast?!

COMMODUS
Yes. Sometimes royal ladies behave very strangely and do very odd 
things in the name of love. 

LUCIUS
I think it's silly. 

COMMODUS
So do I, so do I. 

[Commodus sees Lucilla enter the room.]

COMMODUS
Sister...join us. I've been reading to dear Lucius. 

LUCIUS
I've been reading, too. 

COMMODUS
Yes, he's a very clever little boy. He'll make a grand Emperor 
one day. 

[Lucilla looks astonished.]

COMMODUS
We've been reading about the great Marc Anthony and his 
adventures in Egypt. 

LUCIUS
And the Queen killed herself with a snake! 

COMMODUS 
[to Lucius]

And just wait until you hear what happened to our other 
ancestors! If you're very good, tomorrow night I'll tell you the 
story of Emperor Claudius. He was betrayed, by those closest to 
him ... by his own blood ... they whispered in dark corners and 
went out late at night and conspired and conspired ....   

[Lucilla is getting frightened, nearly in tears.]

COMMODUS
But the Emperor knew they were up to something. He knew they were 
busy little bees. And one night he sat down with one of them and 
he looked at her and he said, "Tell me what you have been doing, 
busy little bee, or I shall strike down those dearest to you. You 
shall watch as I bathe in their blood." And the emperor was 
heartbroken. The little bee had wounded him more deeply than 
anyone had ever done. And what do you think happened then, 
Lucius? 

LUCIUS
I don't know Uncle. 

COMMODUS 
[looking at Lucilla]

The little bee told him everything. 

[Tears of fear slowly roll down Lucilla's face.]

[Back at the gladiator school...Maximus begins to collect his 
things, placing the figurines of his wife and son into their 
leather pouch and slipping his ring on his finger. Outside, 
Praetorian guards are seen as they approach. Meanwhile, assassins 
are releasing a red coral snake into the bed of Senator Gaius as 
he and his wife sleep. The Praetorian have reached Proximo's 
quarters; stand outside the gate and call out, "Open in the name 
of the Emperor. Open the gates, Proximo. Open the gates. Do you 
want to die, old man?"]

PROXIMO 
[walks to Maximus]

Here. Everything is prepared. It seems you have won your freedom. 
[Proximo hands Maximus the ring of keys for his get away.]

MAXIMUS
Proximo, are you in danger of becoming a good man. 

PROXIMO
Hahh! 

MAXIMUS
Juba. 
[as Maximus hands him the ring of keys to the cells.]

[Outside the guards continue calling out, "All enemies of the 
Emperor die!" ]

[The men gather around Maximus to listen to his orders.]

MAXIMUS
I only need moments so you need not be careless with your lives. 
If you don't want to be any part of this go back to your cells. 

HAGEN
We will wait here for you, Maximus. 
[The gladiators call out,]
 "Strength and Honour". 

[Maximus walks over to Juba and says "Strength and Honour" as the 
two friends touch foreheads. Maximus begins to make his get away 
as the gladiators battle with the Roman guards. The gladiators 
fight bravely. Hagen is killed. In Proximo's quarters, he is 
killed by the Praetorian as he holds his Rudius and says, 
"Shadows and dust". Maximus makes his way through the tunnel to 
the outside. Along the way, he finds his armour and sword and 
puts them on. Once outside, he sees a rider standing still. He 
whistles and the rider, Cicero, recognizes the whistle and calls 
out Maximus' name. At that moment, his horse bolts and Cicero is 
hanged by the rope around his neck. Maximus runs to him and lifts 
him. Cicero says, "I'm sorry". The Praetorian shoot arrows and 
kill Cicero as Maximus cries out an anguished roar "Noooo!" 
Maximus is surrounded by the Praetorian.]

[SCENE CHANGE - back at the palace. Senator Falco approaches 
Commodus as he stands looking over the city and says, "It is 
done." Commodus slowly turns to Falco.]
  

COMMODUS
And what of my nephew and what of his mother? Shall they share 
her lover's fate or should I be merciful? Commodus the merciful. 
Lucius will stay with me now and if his mother so much as looks 
at me in a manner that displeases me, he will die. And if she 
decides to be noble and take her own life, he will die. And, as 
for you, 
[looking at Lucilla]
 you will love me as I have loved you. You will provide me with 
an heir of pure blood so that Commodus and his progeny will rule 
for 1,000 years. Am I not merciful? 
[He gets close to her face and tries to kiss her but Lucilla 
turns away. Commodus grabs her jaw, turning her face towards him 
screams]
 AM I NOT MERCIFUL?! 
[Tears slowly come down Lucilla's face.]

[SCENE CHANGE - at the Colosseum. The crowd chants "Maximus, 
Maximus, Maximus" The petals of red flowers float in the air onto 
the sands of the arena floor.... Below, Maximus is chained. 
Commodus goes to Maximus. The other prisoners (Gracchus, Juba) 
are watching as he enters. Commodus, dressed in his white leather 
armour, walks up to the chained Maximus who is bruised and 
weary.]

COMMODUS 
[In a whisper]

Maximus. Maximus. Maximus. They call for you. The general who 
became a slave. The slave who became a gladiator. The gladiator 
who defied an emperor. A striking story. Now the people want to 
know how the story ends. Only a famous death will do. What could 
be more glorious than to challenge the emperor himself in the 
great arena. 

MAXIMUS
You would fight me? 

COMMODUS
Why not? Do you think I am afraid? 

MAXIMUS
I think you have been afraid all your life. 

COMMODUS
Unlike Maximus the invincible, who knows no fear? 

MAXIMUS 
[ laughing]

I knew a man who once said, death smiles at us all. All that man 
can do is smile back. 

COMMODUS
I wonder. Did your friend smile at his own death? 

MAXIMUS
You must know. He was your father. 

COMMODUS
You loved my father, I know. But so did I. That makes us 
brothers, doesn't it? Smile for me now brother. 
[ Commodus embraces Maximus and with one cowardice, fierce 
thrust, stabs him with his dagger that has been hidden in his 
sleeve, and then kisses him on the neck.]

COMMODUS 
[to Quintus]

Strap on his armour. Conceal the wound. 

[SCENE CHANGE - the trap door to the arena opens as the lift 
rises, encircled with the Praetorian as they stand behind their 
black shields. In the middle, the white clad Commodus, gazing 
upwardly, basking in the sun stands next to the wounded, dying 
Maximus.All the while, Quintus staring at Maximus. As they reach 
the floor of the arena, the Praetorian take their ring formation. 
Maximus stumbles to the center, slowly stooping to pick up a 
handful of sand, with a watchful eye on Quintus. Maximus rubs the 
sand between his hands and reaches for his sword but Quintus 
tosses it away from himself, and out of Maximus' reach. Maximus 
painfully moves to where the sword has been tossed and picks it 
up, immediately swinging at Commodus. The two do battle. Maximus 
roars as he attacks Commodus. Commodus manages to cut Maximus' 
leg. Although wounded, Maximus cuts Commodus' arm causing 
Commodus to drop his sword.]

[Maximus, gravely suffering from the wound inflicted by Commodus 
while earlier chained, begins to drift into the after life and as 
he sees the gate to his home, he reaches out in an effort to push 
the gate open, his sword dropping from his hand. Meanwhile, 
Commodus is calling Quintus for his sword, "Sword, give me your 
sword," but Quintus does not comply. Commodus then turns to the 
Praetorian, calling out, "Sword". The guards begin to pull their 
swords when Quintus quickly orders them to "sheath your swords" 
and they comply. As Commodus again reaches for his hidden dagger, 
Maximus quickly returns to this life and, unarmed but for his 
strength and determination, continues battle with Commodus, 
punching him with great force. Maximus turns Commodus' dagger 
against him as he tries relentlessly to fight Maximus off but 
Maximus slowly plunges the knife into Commodus' throat, deeper 
and deeper until it can go no further. Commodus, his breath 
leaving his body, falls to the ground. The fight over, Maximus 
begins to on

MAXIMUS
Quintus, free my men. Senator Gracchus is to be reinstated. There 
was a dream that was Rome, it shall be realized. These are the 
wishes of Marcus Aurelius. 
[Quintus calls out to the guards, "Free the prisoners, ...go!" ]

[Maximus stands, unsteady, as the vision of the wheat field once 
again comes to him, his wife and son waiting for him. Suddenly he 
falls hard like a tree, to the ground. Lucilla runs into the 
arena, dropping to her knees at his side and calling to him 
"Maximus!" Maximus gazes up and tells her, "Lucius is safe." 
Lucilla looks at him adoringly and responds, "Go to them". Now he 
is free. With her hand, she closes his eyes, his face calm and at 
peace as he leaves this world. Lucilla adds, "You are home." 
Grieving, with one hand to her brow, she regains her presence, 
stands and turns to Senator Gracchus and the crowd.]

LUCILLA
Is Rome worth one good man's life? We believed it once. Make us 
believe it again. He was a soldier of Rome. Honour him. 

GRACCHUS
Who will help me carry him?  

[Many gather to lift Maximus and carry him from the arena. 
Commodus is left alone, in the sand.]

[SCENE CHANGE as Juba is digging in the sand for burial, at the 
place where Maximus died. He unfolds the small leather pouch and 
removes the figurines belonging to Maximus of his wife and son 
and gently places them in their resting place,]

JUBA
Now we are free. I will see you again. But not yet, not yet....
- The End -

NOW WE ARE FREE
(As interpreted by DreamWorks SKG Members)
Anol shalom
Anol sheh lay konnud de ne um {shaddai}
Flavum
Nom de leesh
Ham de nam um das
La um de
Flavne... 
We de ze zu bu
We de sooo a ru
Un va-a pesh a lay
Un vi-i bee
Un da la pech ni sa
(Aaahh)
Un di-i lay na day
Un ma la pech a nay
mee di nu ku 
(Fast tempo, 4 times)
La la da pa da le na da na
Ve va da pa da le na la dumda 
Anol shalom
Anol sheh ley kon-nud de ne um.
Flavum.
Flavum.
M-ai shondol-lee
Flavu... {Live on...}
Lof flesh lay
Nof ne
Nom de lis
Ham de num um dass
La um de
Flavne..
Flay
Shom de nomm
Ma-lun des
Dwondi.
Dwwoondi
Alas sharum du koos
Shaley koot-tum. 
****************************************
This compilation is made from public domain. The movie, book and 
print are copyrighted and this is not intended to infringe upon 
that. This is not intended as any commercial venture by either 
the scribe or its contributors, but only for personal reasons. 
