
						SCREENPLAY BY:

							JEFFREY BOAM



							STORY BY:

							GEORGE LUCAS



















	 TM & (c) 1996 by Lucasfilm Ltd.			Working draft

											 NOT FOR REPRODUCTION 




						 "INDY IV"


FROM THE PARAMOUNT LOGO

MATCH DISSOLVE TO:

A mound of sand which resembles the Paramount Logo's mountain
peak.  On the mound's summit, a CHILD'S BRONZE-SKINNED HAND sets
down a crudely fashioned toy ship.  

WIDE - A DESERT WASTELAND CAMP

3 BEDOUIN TEENAGERS are performing before a small audience made up
of BEDOUIN YOUNGSTERS: the first teenager, a boy, is imitating an
elephant; the second teenager, a girl, is pretending she is a
lion; and the third teenager, a boy again, is acting like a
donkey.  There is CLAPPING and LAUGHTER as the teens parade around
the waist high sand pile making SOUNDS akin to their particular
animal.  MAIN TITLES BEGIN.


EXT. NORTHWESTERN SHORE OF THE DEAD SEA - WIDE PANORAMA - DAY

Heat-rippled air is distorting far off figures: BEDOUIN SHEPHERDS
who steer their herd of rams leisurely along the rocky shore.

									DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. ROCKY SHORE - DAY

Set against the Judaean rust colored hills, THE SHEPHERDS, 3, keep
the herd moving steadily along.  The train of rams is kicking up a
veil of dust as their hooves CLACK intermittently on the loose
rocks and stones.	

AT THE REAR, shepherd #3, a bronze-skinned BEDOUIN BOY, uses his 
goad to urge an unruly ram back into the procession.  The BOY
grows impatient as the animal refuses to cooperate.
  
AT THE FRONT, shepherds #1 and #2, THE ELDERS, have themselves a
big laugh at the boy's expense.  

The resentful BOY whacks the RAM'S DERRIERE with his goad!  The
startled animal BLEATS NOISILY and takes off running.  THE ELDERS
SWEAR at the boy in ARABIC and order him to chase after the ram.


EXT. ARID WATERCOURSE/CANYON - ESTABLISHING SHOT - DAY

A HIGH VANTAGE POINT shows us the steep rocky cliffs which form a
U around the dry-bed watercourse.  The runaway ram has made the
mistake of entering what amounts to a dead end canyon.





EXT. CANYON - FURTHER IN

The runaway ram scampers past.  The BOY is not far behind, kicking
up sand and pebbles as he chases after the ram.


EXT. CANYON - DEAD END

The BOY comes shooting around a bend and finds the ram pacing back
and forth, cornered by the canyon's dead end.  

The BOY slowly approaches the jittery beast.  

Now the BOY is within pouncing distance; he gets ready to leap. 
He does -- at which point the tricky ram side-steps and 

THE BOY LANDS FACE FIRST IN THE DIRT!

The BOY spits out sand as he gets to his feet.  

Now the BOY grows uneasy at the sight of the ram charging up the
rear cliff face, taking the steep grade in leaps and bounds; then
the BOY is alarmed as the animal vanishes from sight behind the
jagged rocks high above.   


EXT. HIGH UP ON THE CLIFF - NARROW LEDGE - DAY

The BOY POPS UP from behind the ledge, out of breath.  Immediately
his eyes widen.  

The BOY works himself up onto the narrow ledge --

AND MARVELS AT THE BLACK OPENING TO A CAVERN.  

The BOY looks high and low but doesn't see the ram anywhere.  Now
come the ram's ECHOING BLEATS, deep within the darkness of the
cavern.  

The BOY, nervous, steps in closer to the opening -- the gaping
dark mouth doesn't look very inviting.  The BOY picks up a lose
stone and chucks it hard and deep into the shadowy maw.  

To the BOY'S amazement return the distant shattering SOUNDS of
pottery!


INT. JUST INSIDE THE CAVERN 

IT IS DARK.  The BOY fishes out his trusty Zippo lighter from a
leather shoulder pouch and flicks it to life.  The weak orange
light shallowly penetrates the dark.


INT. BACK WALL OF CAVERN - JUST AFTER

The BOY eases his way along, holding the Zippo like a torch.  The
flickering light shines on the ram ... it is squatting serenely on
the rear floor of the cavern.  The animal is strangely unfazed by
the BOY'S appearance.    

Now the Zippo's light shines on -- 

A COLLECTION OF DUSTY CLAY JARS.  All 12 of the jars are intact
except for one which is broken open.  

The stone the BOY fired into the cavern minutes ago lies among the
shattered pieces.  

The BOY crouches down to the smashed open jar and, captivated,
gently pulls out --  

A FOOT-LONG, CYLINDRICAL OBJECT.  THE ROLLED OBJECT IS SOFT TO THE
TOUCH, LIKE LEATHER.  (TITLES END)

									SHARPLY CUT TO:


EXT. A DESERT AIRSTRIP - DAY

As a tri propeller-driven Breda-Zappata ROARS IN and touches down
on the sunbaked tarmac -- the action is so sudden it makes us
jump!


EXT. THE DESERT AIRSTRIP - PARKED PLANE - JUST AFTER

A legend on the screen reads:

					JORDAN - 1947		

The plane's door is pushed open wide -- and INDIANA JONES,
presentably dressed in a three-piece-suit, steps out into the
blazing sunlight and hurries down the universal stairs.  

INDY is greeted on the ground by MR. LOT, a clean-cut, Jordanian
government official.  They shake hands.  

					MR. LOT
			Doctor Jones, welcome to Jordan.   

MR. LOT escorts INDY toward an OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT JEEP.  The
conversation is charged with childlike excitement and great
anticipation.

					INDY
			The scrolls -- how many have been found?

					MR. LOT
			After you are settled in at the --

					INDY
			If it's all the same to you, Mr. Lot,
			I'd rather go straight to the sight. 

					MR. LOT
				 (amused)
			Of course.

									CUT TO:


EXT. REAR OF DEAD END CANYON - THE EXCAVATION CAMP - DAY

INDY and MR. LOT move quickly through the encampment.  The famous
archaeologist is now fitted in hiking boots and workmen gloves;
naturally, they clash with his three-piece suit.  

A nearby GAS-POWERED GENERATOR, the awful NOISE it produces, makes
conversation futile.

BEDOUIN WORKMEN are busy with odd-jobs/tasks/chores.  The camp is
situated at the base of the rear cliff, below the cavern.  INDY
looks up.

A sturdy wooden platform, metal struts reinforcing it, is anchored
to the cliff face; it extends out from the natural rock ledge,
making access to the cavern much easier.  You get to the cavern
via a solid basket elevator operated by motorised winch.


EXT. THE CAVERN - ON THE WOODEN PLATFORM - JUST AFTER

THE BASKET ELEVATOR RISES UP INTO VIEW.  The generator's NOISE is
less intrusive up here.  Conversation, however, is difficult. 
INDY and MR. LOT climb out of the basket and step toward the
opening:
   
					MR. LOT
			I must --
					(louder)
			I MUST WARN YOU, DOCTOR -- THOUGH I'M
			SURE IT WON'T SURPRISE YOU -- WE'VE HAD
			OUR SHARE OF DEATH THREATS SINCE
			EXCAVATION STARTED A FEW DAYS AGO.

					INDY
			WHO?

					MR. LOT
			THEY CALL THEMSELVES "THE SONS OF
			LIGHT."

					INDY
			YES ... I'VE HEARD OF THEM.  

HOLD on INDY'S face.  Thoughtful.


INT. DEEPER INTO THE CAVERN - NARROW PASSAGEWAY - JUST AFTER

A series of bulb fixtures, being fed by a SINGLE ELECTRICAL CABLE
anchored to the rock ceiling above, runs the full length of the
cavern and provides enough light for INDY and MR. LOT to navigate
the narrow passageway.  The generator's NOISE isn't so prevalent
this far in.

					MR. LOT
			Fortunately the scrolls have been
			preserved by the region's extreme
			aridity.  
					(MORE)

					MR. LOT CONT.
			We've dated them using a new technique
			developed by Professor Willard Libby,
			University of Chicago: radiocarbon
			dating.  The scrolls date to
			approximately 200 B.C.  Almost two
			millennia ago, Doctor.


INT. REAR ALCOVE OF CAVERN - NOW A MAKESHIFT EXAMINATION ROOM 
- JUST AFTER

INDY and MR. LOT are standing behind a SCROLL SPECIALIST who is
seated at a simple work station.  INDY looks over the specialist's
shoulder.  The old jewish scholar is handling a PAPYRUS MANUSCRIPT
with almost superhuman patience and care.

INDY beams.

					MR. LOT
			From preliminary transcribing, we know
			the scrolls include manuals of
			discipline, hymnbooks, Biblical
			commentaries, and apocalyptic writings.

INDY notes the ancient hand writing.

					INDY
			Biblical Hebrew.  I'm afraid it's not
			one of my better known languages. 
			What's that passage he's transcribing? 

MR. LOT leans in and reads the ancient writing over the
specialist's shoulder.

					MR. LOT
			Very interesting ... the Book of 
			Genesis ... 8:4 to be precise.  

					INDY
				 (quoting; automatic)
			"And the Ark rested in the seventh
			month, on the seventeenth day of the
			month, upon the mountains of Ararat."   
			
					MR. LOT
				 (impressed)
			You know your Bible, Doctor.

					INDY
				 (wryly)
			Pushy father.


EXT. OUTSIDE THE CAVERN - BACK ON THE WOODEN PLATFORM - DAY
							 
INDY and LOT emerge from the cavern and shield their eyes from the
intense sunlight.  The generator's NOISE is prominent once again.




					MR. LOT
				 (shouting)
			THE DEPARTMENT WILL SOON BEGIN
			EXCAVATING THE REMAINING CAVES IN THIS
			AREA.

					INDY
			THAT'S GREAT!  WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF
			GETTING ME ON ONE OF THE EXCAVATION
			TEAMS?  

As INDY is asking that a CREEPY BEDOUIN WORKER, eyeing the men out
the corner of his eye, sets down a load of coiled rope and then
surreptitiously draws a 

GLEAMING DAGGER FROM THE FOLDS OF HIS GARMENTS!

					MR. LOT
			DOCTOR, WITH YOUR REPUTATION I'M CERTAIN
			THE DEPARTMENT WILL WELCOME --

Suddenly MR. LOT gasps!  He quickly falls away -- 

LOT'S FACE IS REPLACED BY THE CREEPY BEDOUIN'S SNARLING MUG.  THE
DAGGER CLUTCHED IN HIS HAND IS SMEARED WITH LOT'S BLOOD.  

INDY stumbles backwards.  CREEPY starts toward INDY menacingly,
the dagger up, its metal blade catching the sunlight.  INDY blinks
as the reflected sunlight stings his eyes.  INDY STEPS BACKWARD
off the wooden platform and onto the natural cliff ledge.   

NOW TWO MORE NASTY BEDOUINS DROP IN FROM THE CLIFF FACE ABOVE THE
CAVERN.  Call them SPOOKY and SCARY.  INDY puts out his hands as a
show of peace.  He speaks in ARABIC:

					INDY (*subtitled*)
			I MEAN YOU NO HARM. 

SHHHINK!  SPOOKY and SCARY whip out daggers of their own!   

					INDY (*subtitled*)
			NO HARM!  NO HARM!  
				 (grumbling)
			Not working!
				 (shouting)
			HEY!  SOMEBODY!  I GOT A BIG PROBLEM
			HERE!

DOWN IN THE CAMP, NO ONE CAN HEAR INDY OVER THE GENERATOR'S AWFUL
RACKET.  

BACK ON THE LEDGE, the dagger trio are advancing. 

INDY glances quickly over his shoulder.  He's not at all surprised
by what he sees: 

HE IS RUNNING OUT OF LEDGE.  IT'S JUST A FEW MORE STEPS TO THE
EDGE AND THEN IT'S A 30 FOOT DROP STRAIGHT DOWN!



INDY quickly takes inventory: he looks up -- no good -- sheer 
rocks above -- the basket elevator -- nope, too far away.  Uh-huh,
it appears our hero is trapped!  

INDY scowls!  

Then INDY spots a rope at his feet -- not a rope -- a black cable. 
IT'S A THICK ELECTRICAL CABLE.  The same one we saw anchored along
the ceiling inside the cavern --

WE DROP QUICKLY ALONG THE CABLE ... ALL THE WAY DOWN THE CLIFF
FACE TO SEE:

THAT THE CABLE IS ATTACHED TO THE NOISY GENERATOR.  

Also: 

THE CABLE IS RUNNING IN BETWEEN SCARY'S FEET.
   
INDY snatches up the cable lightning fast and yanks hard on it. 
The cable snaps up -- 

OUCH!  SCARY cups his crotch, eyes rolling back in their sockets.
SCARY drops like a tone of bricks -- out cold.  One down.  Two to
go.

Suddenly SPOOKY belts out a BATTLE CRY and charges at INDY. 
SPOOKY tackles our surprised hero -- 

THEY BOTH LEAVE THE LEDGE AND SAIL OUT INTO SPACE!  WHILE IN MID-
AIR, OUR FAST THINKING HERO LOCKS HIS GLOVED HANDS AROUND THE
CABLE WHICH HE STILL HAS HOLD OF.  

At the same time SPOOKY locks his ARMS and LEGS around INDY like a
vicious monkey!   

FLASH SHOT -- INSIDE THE CAVERN -- as the men's combined weight on
the electrical cable yank it loose, popping the rivets one by one,
all along the cavern ceiling -- 

BACK OUTSIDE: INDY -- his clinging monkey with him -- is falling
fast on the lengthening cable. 

Suddenly the cable SNAPS TAUT and INDY is violently jerked to a
stop in mid-air.    

INDY smacks the cliff face hard, cringing grotesquely. 
Immediately INDY'S hands start to SLIP on the cable.  His weight
combined with that of the clinging attacker's is too much!  

INDY plants his BOOTS on the jagged rocks and that lessens the
strain.  He SNAKES an arm around the cable and that gives him the
needed leverage.

NOW WE SEE INDY IS SOME 30FT UP.  AND FAR BELOW --

IS THAT NOISY GENERATOR.

BACK TO INDY -- as SPOOKY, his arms and legs like vices, bounces
up and down, trying to pull INDY off the cable.  INDY tries to
shake the lunatic, as:

ON THE LEDGE ABOVE, CREEPY shouts down in HEBREW:

					CREEPY (*subtitled*)
			SHALEM, HOLD TIGHT!

Shouting back --

					SPOOKY (*subtitled*)
			CUT THE CABLE!  DO IT NOW -- WITH HASTE! 
			FOR I WILL GLADLY DIE FOR HE WHO IS
			GOOD!  

At which point SPOOKY looks straight into INDY'S eyes.  Our 
steel-nerved archaeologist is chilled to the bone.  

					SPOOKY (*subtitled*)
				 (at the top of his lungs)
			PRAISE THE SONS OF LIGHT!  AND DAMN THE
			SONS OF DARKNESS TO ETERNAL SUFFERING!

With that SPOOKY does the unthinkable -- HE LETS GO!  

INDY, spooked, watches the man plunge silently to his death.  

SOUND: THUD!  INDY grimaces and looks away.

UP ABOVE, CREEPY IS NOW PREPARING TO CUT THE CABLE WITH HIS
DAGGER.

DOWN BELOW, INDY is suddenly struck with a bad feeling.  

INDY quickly secures HANDHOLDS in the rocks and releases the 
cable -- just in time!  

As, UP ABOVE, CREEPY is slicing through the electrical cable and
receives one hell of a SHOCK for his trouble!  

INSIDE THE CAVE, as the bulbs explode in their fixtures -- POP! 
POP!  POP!  The SCROLL SPECIALIST working here is startled out of
his seat. 

THE CUT CABLE SPITS SPARKS, WHOOSHING DOWN PAST OUR CLIFF HUGGING
HERO.    

THE GROUND BELOW, as the heavy cable pummels the generator's
housing, collecting like a string of falling spaghetti; then as
the cable plops into the dirt a tangled mess, the live end flip-
flopping like a snake set on fire.

BACK TO INDY, as he adjusts for a better grip -- and almost
plummets to his death when the ROCKS BENEATH HIS BOOTS break off
from too much weight!  

FALLING SHALE AND ROCK CHUNKS RAIN DOWN, CLUNKING ON THE
GENERATOR'S METAL HOUSING.  HEAR THAT: IT'S STILL RUNNING.

BACK TO CREEPY, on his feet now, feeling sluggish, his head
buzzing.  He shakes it off quickly and looks down over the ledge. 

CREEPY CURSES -- that hat wearing fool is still alive!  

CREEPY looks around desperately.  He spots the perfect thing and
shakes with demented glee.
    
JUMP AHEAD A BIT IN TIME -- AT THE EDGE, CREEPY sets down a

LARGE WATERTANK ON TIRES.    

CREEPY works the tank's over-sized tap so that it is in line with
INDY'S head below.  

CREEPY starts to vigorously prime the handpump.

Water belches out ... sputters ... now water gushes from the tap. 
The heavy flow cascades down the cliff face --

A STRANGE SOUND ... ?   INDY looks up --

AND WATER SPLASHES DOWN ALL OVER HIS FACE!  INDY coughs and gags.
Hangs on.

CREEPY jumps up and down, clapping his hands.

INDY is getting drenched.  The rocks which he clings to are
turning slick, very slippery.    

CREEPY is reaching for the hand pump again when 

					A VOICE
				 (shouts in ARABIC)
			YOU!  WHAT'S GOING ON!

CREEPY whirls around.  The SCROLL SPECIALIST has just emerged from
the cavern.  But before he can say another word, there is a flash
of metal --

THEN THOOP!  THE SPECIALIST NOW HAS A DAGGER PROTRUDING FROM HIS
CHEST!  The old man falls back, dead.  CREEPY scurries over to the
body and reclaims his trusty dagger.

CREEPY, back at the watertank, is pumping again.  Water just
trickles from the tap.  CREEPY growls! 

A BOOT SLIPS -- SQUEAK!  INDY resets it.  Yup, the dripping-wet
adventurer is looking pretty hopeless right about now.   

ANOTHER STRANGE SOUND -- PITTER-PATTER -- SMALL OBJECTS ARE
FALLING ON INDY'S HAT!

SAND AND PEBBLES ARE THE OBJECTS!    

Shiver me timbers, CREEPY is struggling with the bulky 
watertank ... and by the looks of it, he's determined to push it
off the ledge!  The front legs (like those on a wheel-barrel) are
scraping off sand and pebbles from the ledge -- 

INDY risks it and looks up.  SAND MIXED WITH PEBBLES POURS DOWN
ALL OVER HIS FACE.  INDY spits -- YUCK!  PIT-TU!




IT HAPPENS: gravity pulls the teetering watertank off the ledge. 
The cast iron drum/support trailer falls fast toward INDY --

But it SLAMS into protruding rocks overhead and starts to break
apart --

WHOOSH!  The banged-up watertank flashes downward past INDY, just
missing him by a few feet!  

BELOW, the watertank impacts on the ground with a CRUNCH, just
missing the running generator by a few feet!  

ABOVE, CREEPY CURSES -- he can't seem to get a break!    

ABRUPTLY CUT TO: CREEPY as he snatches up a coiled rope from the
pile he unloaded earlier.

Now CREEPY is at an outcropping of rock, tying the rope off.  

Now CREEPY is back at the ledge, dropping the coiled rope over the
side.  

The rope DROPS IN -- a good ten feet off to the side -- out of
INDY's reach.  Our precariously situated archaeologist snaps a
look up and sees that his nightmare isn't over!

The dagger clamped between his teeth, CREEPY takes hold of the
rope and starts to scale down the cliffside.

CREEPY DROPS IN, just ten feet separating him from his prey.  

INDY sights a handhold and pulls himself up, expanding the
distance between himself and CREEPY even more.

INDY works his BOOT into a crevice -- but again his weight is too
much.  BIG CHUNKS OF ROCK BREAK FREE! 

Slabs of heavy limestone pummel the noisy generator --

AND SPLIT OPEN THE GAS DRUM!

Gasoline GURGLES out and splashes very close to the cut electrical
cable -- 

WHICH IS STILL SPITTING SPARKS!  

BACK TO CREEPY as he pushes off the cliff face, swings out on the
rope and, with his feet, braces for the impact.  He LANDS on the
cliff face with a grunt.  That did it.  CREEPY is now within arm's
reach.  INDY, defenceless, is situated up a bit and to the left.  

One hand on the rope -- the other clutching the dagger -- CREEPY
lashes out at INDY!  

The blade CLINKS on the rocks, slicing past INDY'S BOOT. 

Jerking away fast causes INDY to SLIP on the wet rocks.  But he 
quickly regains his footing -- PHEW!




DOWN BELOW, THE INEVITABLE HAPPENS: THE LIVE CABLE IGNITES THE
GASOLINE.  FLAMES RISE UP AND ENGULF THE GENERATOR.  

But what's this?  No explosion -- !   

CREEPY lashes out and misses again, but does catch INDY'S PANT
LEG.  A long tattered incision opens up; the pink flesh of INDY'S
shin peeks out.

THE REACTION ON INDY'S FACE IS PRICELESS!   

ON THE GROUND, the fire engulfed generator is, surprisingly, in
one piece still!  Another surprise now as the FRAME ADJUSTS
quickly -- 

AND REVEALS A ROW OF GASOLINE CANS SQUATTING CLOSE TO THE
CRACKLING BLAZE!

INDY, desperate, breaks off a chunk of limestone and fires it at
CREEPY!  The brick-size chunk HITS CREEPY IN THE FACE!  The zealot
is dazed just slightly -- and worse he didn't let go of the rope! 

INDY can't believe it.  He can't believe this either:

CREEPY is doing something desperate himself.  He is just about to
throw his dagger!  He has it by the tip -- he looks evil -- and
there goes his hand ... back ... back ... back 

KAH-BOOM!

At once, the men both look down and gasp at 

A HUGE ORANGE FIRE BALL SHOOTING UP TOWARD THEM!  

INDY hugs the cliff face for dear life --

AS THE FIRE BALL'S MUSHROOM OF DEATH ROARS UP TO FILL THE SCREEN. 
A TORTURED, HIGH-PITCHED SHRIEK CHILLS OUR SPINE -- EEEEEAAAAA! 

HIS BODY ALL ABLAZE -- CREEPY IS SEARED OFF THE ROPE AND PLUNGES
TO HIS DEATH.

The fire and smoke start to dissipate...

INDY materialises slowly -- he's alive!  But how can that be? 
INDY lets us in on how by patting himself down.  Of course, his
water-soaked clothes.  Fortuitous fire-proofing.

INDY lets out a big breath, happy to be alive.  He looks down at
CREEPY'S charred remains far below ...    

Well that's enough hanging around.  INDY reaches out to the singed
rope and grabs it easily.  He tests it's strength.  Feels secure
enough.  Slowly, INDY starts the climb up to safety.

									CUT TO:






EXT. DOWNTOWN AMMAN, JORDAN - DAY

A four star hotel rises from the street TEEMING with activity.


INT. ELEGANT LOBBY OF THE FOUR STAR HOTEL - DAY    
						 
INDY limps up to the front desk, his suit grime-soiled and torn,
his face mud caked.

					INDY
			Doctor Henry Jones checking in.

The DESK MANAGER chokes back a shriek, startled by INDY'S foul
appearance. 

					DESK MANAGER
			Allah be merciful -- have you had an
			accident, Doctor?  Do you require
			medical attention?

					INDY
			No, no -- nothing a hot shower and a
			couple dozen aspirin won't cure.



INT. INDY'S HOTEL SUITE - DAY

INDY enters, stiff, wincing painfully at his sore joints and
muscles.


INT. SUITE BATHROOM - DAY

INDY stands bare-chested in front of the mirror.  He dabs at his
scraps and cuts with a wet face cloth.

					INDY
			Getting (yelp) to old for this.

KNOCK!  KNOCK!


INT. HOTEL SUITE - AT THE ENTRANCE

INDY opens the door and reveals a:

						BELLHOP
			Urgent telegram for you, Doctor Jones.

INDY takes the telegram.

					INDY
				 (with worried frown)
			Thank you.

INDY shuts the door.  He opens the telegram and starts to read.  

INDY'S features start to weigh heavily with pathos.  Then as the
horrible news hits him, INDY goes numb.

The telegram falls from INDY'S limp fingers and lands face up on
the carpet.  

It reads:

			FROM: DR. GOODWIN, BOSTON MERCY HOSPITAL 

			DEAR MR. JONES,

			I REGRET TO INFORM YOU THAT
			COMPLICATIONS IN YOUR FATHER'S CONDITION
			HAS RESULTED IN HIS PASSING AWAY.  YOUR
			IMMEDIATE RETURN IS REQUESTED.  

									DISSOLVE TO:


A TOMBSTONE WHICH READS: 

					 HENRY JONES SR.
		BORN: SEPTEMBER 16, 1872  DIED: SEPTEMBER 16, 1947
			BELOVED HUSBAND TO WIFE MARGARET
				 HONOURED FATHER TO SON HENRY

EPITAPH:			"WHOEVER BELIEVES MAY IN
				 HIM HAVE ETERNAL LIFE"  


EXT. A BOSTON CEMETERY - OVERCAST DAY

A legend appears:

				BOSTON - ONE YEAR LATER	

Grey storm clouds loom overhead.  INDY is kneeling at his father's
grave, a muffin in his hand, set with a single candle.  INDY
lights the candle with a Zippo.

					INDY
				 (sombrely)
			Happy birthday, dad.

INDY blows out the candle.   DISTANT THUNDER RUMBLES. 


EXT. BOSTON UNIVERSITY - OVERCAST DAY

The stately university is partially visible through the pouring
rain. 


INT. BOSTON UNIVERSITY - THE FACULTY LOUNGE - OVERCAST DAY

INDY lounges in a sofa chair, reading the day's newspaper.  
UP CLOSE ON THE HEADLINE: 

		TRUMAN DISCLOSES: SOVIETS HAVE THE BOMB!  

BILL HUMPHREY, a highbrow, thirtysomething professor, takes a seat
in the sofa chair across from INDY'S.  BILL has a hardcover book
in his hand.

					BILL
			Good afternoon, Jones.

INDY lowers the newspaper.  Seeing BILL, INDY promptly raises the
paper again.

					INDY
				 (from behind the paper)
			Same to you, Bill.

					BILL
				 (perturbed) 
			Jones, please, I've asked you numerous
			times already to refrain from calling me
			Bill.  My Christian name is William.

					INDY
			Sorry, William.  I keep forgetting.

BILL glances down at the hardcover book he brought.  The author's
photo on the back jacket is A SCHOLARLY SNAPSHOT OF INDY.

					BILL				 
			I'm enjoying your book ... a bit too
			laymen for my palette, though.

INDY shifts uncomfortably.   BILL lights his pipe.  Then:

					BILL
			You'll be thrilled to know: the
			University of Cincinnati is assembling
			an expedition team to explore King
			Nestor's palace in Greece.  My
			invitation to join came yesterday.

					INDY
				 (rubbing it in)
			Got mine three weeks ago, William.

					BILL
			Hmmm...appears then we'll both be
			partaking in what I'm sure will be a
			rewarding exploration.   

					INDY
				 (lowers the newspaper)
			I'm not going.

BILL isn't surprised.

					BILL
			This is a first, Jones.  Usually the
			very mention of the word "expedition"
			sends you home to pack.

					INDY
			All of us can't be traipsing around the
			planet ... some of us have
			responsibilities ... schedules ... Minds
			to enrich.

					BILL
				 (counterfeit sigh)
			My, my...I never thought I'd see the
			day.  You know, Jones, I've watched you
			fossilize over the last year.  It
			saddens me to think you've tossed in
			your pick.  But, as they say, out with
			the old and in with the new.

					INDY
				 (standing)
			Excuse me, Bill.  I have to throw up.

INDY exits promptly.   BILL makes a "how rude" face.  He looks
down at INDY'S book.  

The cover reads: THE MODERN ARCHAEOLOGIST - DR. HENRY JONES, JR.

					BILL'S VOICE
			The modern archaeologist indeed.

MATCH CUT TO:

THE SAME BOOK --


INT. A PUBLIC LIBRARY - DAY

A LIBRARIAN checks INDY'S BOOK in and places it aside.   

A PERSON, their arms loaded down with stacked books, walks up to
the check out desk ever-so-carefully, their face hidden from us
behind the stack of hardcovers.  He/she tries to unload the stack
but it topples over and SCATTERS books all over the check out
counter.  

The person, A BOY, is revealed.  He smiles sheepishly.	

					LIBRARIAN
			Abner, be careful!  

					ABNER
			Sorry, Ms. Rothhorn.

ABNER is about 11 years old, fit as a fiddle, with sharp eyes and
a tongue to match.   

Collecting the scattered books --

					LIBRARIAN
			You're checking out all of these?

					ABNER
			Give that lady a cigar!

The librarian shoots ABNER a harsh look.  She reads a few of the
book titles to herself --




					LIBRARIAN
			"Time of Noah and The Ark", "The Genesis
			Flood",  "The Search For Noah's Ark".
				 (eyeing the boy strangely)
			Why on earth do you want all these books
			about Noah's Ark?

					ABNER
				 (spiritedly)		
			I'm working on a big bible-class project
			-- for the contest.  It's gonna be
			great.  No -- fantastic.  Displays,
			photos, even a model of the ark.  What
			it looks like up there on top of Mount
			Ararat.  First prize is a trip to the
			holy land: Jerusalem.
					(cocky)
			They might as well just gimme the prize
			now. 

					LIBRARIAN
			Sounds a little ambitious to me.

					ABNER
			Ms. Rothhorn, competition's fierce these
			days.  You gotta go all out.  You just
			gotta.


EXT. ABNER'S HOUSE - DAY

The sun is shining brightly ... but it was pouring rain a second
ago ... a switch in locations perhaps? 

ABNER rides up to the house on his bike.


INT. ABNER'S HOUSE - FRONT DOOR - JUST AFTER	

ABNER marches inside with his bulging backpack weighing him down.

					ABNER
			Mom!  I'm home!  Mom!

Silence.


INT. ABNER'S TIDY BEDROOM UPSTAIRS - JUST AFTER

ABNER upends his backpack and dumps out the library books onto his
bed.  He starts to neatly arrange the books on his desk.  

A BRIEF LOOK AT ABNER'S ROOM: It's well organized.  Everything in
its place.  ABNER is no ordinary kid.    

ABNER, puzzled, holds up a familiar looking book.  IT'S INDY'S
BOOK.

					ABNER
			Where'd this come from?


He glances briefly at the author's photo on the back jacket.  

					ABNER
				 (shrugging it off)
			Mustta got mixed in.  

CUT: Now ABNER is at a work table.  He pours melted candle wax
over sections of a foot-long popsicle stick model of NOAH'S ARK. 
The ark is painted to look rotted.  Jagged holes in the bow and
stern add convincingly to the effect.  The wax hardens as it
cools, adding even greater detail to the model: a simulated layer
of ice.  ABNER is a crafty one.  

Squatting on another table is a nearly finished paper-mache MT.
ARARAT (just its snow-capped peak has been duplicated).  White
cotton simulates the snow-cap.  A real professional job.   

PUSH IN SLOWLY ON THE FAKE MT. ARARAT.

									CUT TO:


EXT. THE REAL MOUNT ARARAT, TURKEY - SUN UP	
 
A vast aerial view of the mountain as seen from the under belly of
an airplane.  The snow-capped peaks reach up and threaten to knock
us out of the sky.


EXT. THE SKY OVER MT. ARARAT

A RECONNAISSANCE PLANE banks sharply, letting us see the SOVIET
RED STAR insignia on its wing.


EXT. SNOW COVERED LOWLANDS, RUSSIA - OVERCAST

The lines of a MILITARY AIRFIELD AND OUTPOST are visible behind a
veil of blowing snow.

UP CLOSE on the outpost sign written in Russian.  Its translation
appears on the screen: HEADQUARTERS -- SOVIET AIR COMMAND. 
	

INT. SOVIET A.C. - MAIN OPERATIONS - OVERCAST

The spacious ops. room is brightly lit.  A DOZEN AIRMEN man their
individual radar screens and communication stations.  The RADIO
CHATTER is in RUSSIAN.


INT. THE COMMANDING OFFICER'S CHAMBER - OVERCAST

The name plate on the desk is in Russian.  Its translation appears
on the screen: CAPT. YUGI VLADIMIROV.

VLADIMIROV, built like a bull, sits at his desk, reviewing the
day's reports.   He is a career military man in his early forties. 
The many plaques, the framed photos of him with Soviet leaders
present and old, tell us that VLADIMIROV is an important man.  

There's a sharp rap on the chamber door. 

					VLADIMIROV (*subtitled*)
				 (curtly)
			Enter!

A YOUNG LIEUTENANT steps in with an air of urgency about him.

					YOUNG LIEUTENANT (*subtitled*)
			Excuse the interruption, comrade
			Captain.  But a routine reconnaissance
			flight has picked up...

And now through the magic of motion pictures the men speak in
English (no Russian accents please).  

					YOUNG LIEUTENANT
			...has found something I think you
			should see.

The officer places A LARGE AERIAL PHOTO in front of his superior.

					VLADIMIROV 
				 (testily)
			What am I looking at?

					YOUNG LIEUTENANT 
			Ariel photo: Mount Ararat.

						VLADIMIROV 
			Why are you wasting my time with this?

					YOUNG LIEUTENANT 
			Please, if you will --

He swings over a photo magnifier on a retractable arm.

					YOUNG LIEUTENANT CONT.
			The section here.

VLADIMIROV reluctantly gives in and adjusts the magnifier.  He
looks down through the glass at the photo.  The area which the
anxious officer pointed out is now magnified.

					YOUNG LIEUTENANT 
			Do you see it, comrade Captain?

LOOKING DOWN through the magnifier ourselves, we can make out a
RECTANGULAR MASS protruding up through the ice and snow.

					VLADIMIROV 
				 (intrigued now)
			Yes...something there.

					YOUNG LIEUTENANT
			Rectangular -- not a protrusion of 
			rock ... but something else.




					VLADIMIROV 
			Yes ... too geometrical for mother
			nature.  Strange.  What mountain is
			this?  

					YOUNG LIEUTENANT 
			Mount Ararat, comrade Captain.

					VLADIMIROV 
				 (thoughtfully)
			Ararat.

VLADIMIROV seems elsewhere as he leans back in his chair.

					YOUNG LIEUTENANT 
			Does something trouble you, comrade
			Captain?

					VLADIMIROV
				 (thinking aloud to himself)
			Can it be...

					YOUNG LIEUTENANT
			Beg your pardon, comrade Captain?

					VLADIMIROV  
				 (back on earth)  
			How many have seen this photo?

					YOUNG LIEUTENANT 
			I brought it directly to you, comrade
			Captain.  You are the first to see it.

					VLADIMIROV
			I will take care of it.  Is that clear?

					YOUNG LIEUTENANT
			Yes, comrade Captain!

					VLADIMIROV
			Dismissed.

The officer salutes and exits promptly.  

VLADIMIROV leans in and studies the photo through the magnifier
again.  A beat.  Then VLADIMIROV raises his head and he looks out.
He whispers something CRYPTIC in a language which isn't Russian.
   
									CUT TO:


EXT. ABNER'S HOUSE, STATE SIDE - NIGHT

Somewhere inside the house a phone begins to RING.  AND RING
... AND RING  

					ABNER'S VOICE
				 (garbled)
			Ma!  Answer the phone!


INT. ABNER'S HOUSE - BATHROOM

ABNER'S mouth is full of toothpaste; he's right in the middle of
brushing his teeth.  

RING!  RING!  RING!

					ABNER
			MAAAA!

He growls and spits out the paste.


INT. MOM'S BEDROOM - JUST AFTER 

ABNER gruffly answers the phone --

					ABNER
			This better be good!  Yeah, just hang on
			a second.  She's here somewhere.


INT. LIVING ROOM - JUST AFTER 

ABNER enters and shouts --

					ABNER
			Mom!  Phone!  Maaaaam!

MOM is sprawled out on the couch with her face hidden underneath a
pillow.

					ABNER
				 (sharply)
			Mom!

MOM doesn't answer.  ABNER stomps over to the couch.  His knee
catches on the corner of the coffee table which causes two empty
Vodka bottles to CLINK together.  

ABNER shakes his mother.  Again.  MOM'S GROANS are muffled through
the pillow over her face.

					ABNER
			Mom!  Phone!  Mom!

MORE GROANS.  ABNER exhales heavily and rolls his eyes.  He spins
around to go ... but something catches his eye.  

A SHOEBOX.  It is resting on the coffee table, lid off.   ABNER
looks inside.  He REACHES IN and takes out some newspaper
clippings.  A few of the clippings are accompanied by PHOTOS. 
ABNER frowns, recognizing the man in the photos.


INT. ABNER'S BEDROOM - JUST AFTER

ABNER is looking at the PHOTO on the back jacket of INDY'S BOOK.

					ABNER
			... Same guy.  

ABNER sets the book aside.  He has brought the shoebox upstairs
with him.  Rummaging through it, ABNER finds an UNOPENED ENVELOPE,
"Return To Sender" stamped across its front.  ABNER tears open the
envelope.  He reads a HAND WRITTEN LETTER to himself while:

					MARION'S VOICE RECITES TO US 
			Dear Indy: I feel rotten about keeping
			him a secret from you for so long.  You
			have a right to know.  It was selfish of
			me to keep him from you all these years. 
			But the truth is, I was scared.  Scared
			you would neglect him.  Or worse, he'd
			want to follow you around the world. 
			I've already lost two men to the lure of
			archaeology.  I didn't want to lose
			another ... especially my own son.
			I wanted to spare him the dangers and
			hardships you and my father experienced. 
			But it's not fair.  I know that now. 
			It's not fair to Abner.  That's what
			I've named our son --  
					(ABNER BLURTS OUT)
			Son!
					(MARION'S VOICE CONT.)
			Indy, you are his father.  He needs a
			father.  Please get in touch with me as
			soon as you can.  Love, Marion.

ABNER'S mind is racing.  In the envelope he finds a PHOTO of
himself at age 7.  

ABNER pulls out from the shoebox a snapshot, faded with age.  In
the PHOTOGRAPH, smiling with arms around one another, is INDY,
MARION and MARION'S FATHER.

ABNER, numb, stares down at INDY'S face in the photo.

					ABNER
			Dad?
				 (now with delight)
			Dad!

CUT: Now ABNER is pouring through the "ABOUT THE AUTHOR" section
of INDY'S BOOK.

CUT: Now ABNER is pushing aside tin cans in a kitchen cupboard. 
He pulls out a coffee can.  Inside is some money.  Mostly ones and
fives.  But a few tens and twenties.	

CUT: Now ABNER is back in his bedroom, taking clothes from his 
dresser -- shirts, socks, underwear, etc -- and stuffing them into
his backpack.  Something falls to the floor in the rush.

ABNER picks up his PASSPORT.  He looks at it thoughtfully.

					ABNER
				 (nodding to himself)
			Just might need it.
    
CUT: Now ABNER is ready to go.  One last item: INDY'S BOOK.  He
grabs it off the bed and smiles at INDY'S PHOTO -- 

					ABNER
				 (he can't get over it)
			I got a dad!

CLOSE ON THE JACKET PHOTO OF INDY, AND:

MATCH CUT TO:

THE REAL FACE OF INDY.  At the moment INDY is in the middle of
lecturing his class.  IT'S DAY.  The lecture hall we're in is
filled to capacity with UNIVERSITY STUDENTS.

					INDY
			...or is it because we believe that in
			order to face the future we must first
			face the past?  
					(beat)
			But a warning: the past is a hungry
			animal.  It has a voracious appetite. 
			And if you're not careful you will be
			devoured by it.  
					(beat)  
			For the majority of you archaeology will
			be a reason to...get out of the
			house...a simple hobby.  But for the
			unlucky few it will take control of your
			lives...and before you know it, your
			search for the past has become...
				 (a bit of realization here)
			 ... a dangerous obsession.	

INDY looks thoughtful.  His STUDENTS sit patiently, waiting for
him to resume.   

INDY glances at the WALL CLOCK.

					INDY
			That's all for today.

STUDENTS GROAN and START TO EXIT the lecture hall.

When the LAST OF THE STUDENTS has filed out INDY sits down at his
desk.  He looks drained, sad.

Now --

					A FAMILIAR VOICE
			Nice speech.   

INDY, startled slightly, looks up at the back row.  ABNER sits in
a desk, his backpack in front of him.

					INDY	
			How'd you get in here?

					ABNER
			Through the door.

					INDY
			Is that right.  Well, my little friend,
			class is over.  So if you don't mind --

					ABNER
			Say, you always this uptight?

					INDY
			I'm not uptight.

					ABNER
			You coulda fooled me.			 

INDY smirks.

					INDY
			Ah, a wiseass?

					ABNER
			My mother thinks so.  I probably get it
			from her.  Hey, maybe you know my
			mother?

					INDY
			Do I look like the type who would
			associate with wiseasses?
					
					ABNER
				 (irked)
			You can say what you want about me,
			buster.  But mom's off limits.  Got it?

					INDY
			Sorry...don't get your feathers in a
			bunch.  Ah, say, is your mother around?
			I think maybe you should --

					ABNER
			She's back in Vermont.

					INDY
			Ah, then you're here with your father?

					ABNER
			You could say that.

					INDY
			Well, friend, it was nice chatting, but
			I've got some --

					ABNER
			You wanna know what my mother's name is?
			Marion.  Her name's Marion.

					INDY
			Really.  

					ABNER
			You know a Marion ... right?

INDY frowns.  

					INDY
			Yes ... how'd you know that?


					ABNER
			But you haven't seen her in a long time,
			right?					 

					INDY
			Is this going somewhere, kid?
			'Cause if it's not --

					ABNER
			Settle down, Indy.  I'm almost done.

					INDY
				 (shaken)
			What ... what did you call me?

					ABNER
			Indy.  It's your name.  Isn't it?

					INDY
			Nickname.
					(uneasy)
			I think maybe we should find your father
			now, huh?

					ABNER
			I already have.


INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE LECTURE HALL - DAY

INDY, shaken up, trips as he comes out into the hall and his
papers and books SPILL onto the floor.  ABNER runs out after INDY. 
INDY starts to collect his papers.

ABNER has out the PHOTO of INDY, MARION, and MARION'S FATHER.  

					ABNER
			Look -- there -- that's my mother in the
			middle.  Marion Ravenwood.  Guy on the
			right, that's you.  And on the left is
			my mom's dad.  I never met him.  Mom
			said he died.  She also said my dad died
			when I was just a baby.

INDY'S and ABNER'S eyes meet briefly.  INDY is more flustered than
ever now.  He rushes away.  

ABNER chases after INDY.


EXT. BOSTON U - FACULTY PARKING LOT - NEAR SUNDOWN  

INDY, almost running, hurries toward his parked sedan.  ABNER
trails behind.

					ABNER
			I'm not going away, mister.  So you
			might as well get use to me.



Spinning around --

					INDY
			No -- I mean it, kid!  Beat it! 
			Vamoose!  

ABNER looks hurt.

					ABNER
				 (teary eyed)
			I'm not trying to pull a scam, mister. 
			I just...
				 (snapping)
			Just forget it!

ABNER runs away.  INDY salutes the kid "good riddin's."


INT. INDY'S SEDAN - JUST AFTER

INDY, grumbling ad-libs to himself, slips in behind the wheel.  He
takes a moment, getting his head straight.  He chuckles.    

					INDY
			Ridiculous! 

INDY catches his reflection in the REAR-VIEW MIRROR.  He looks
closely.  INDY groans now, bringing a hand to his face.

					INDY
			Oh, Marion....  
				 (into rear-view mirror)
			He's got my eyes.


EXT. A RESIDENTIAL STREET - NEAR SUNDOWN

ABNER drifts along, head down, shoulders slumped.  Car headlights
appear behind him.

INDY'S sedan pulls over to the curb.

					INDY  
				 (out his window)
			Hey!  I'm on my way to visit 
			someone.  How about tagging along?

ABNER, sulking, doesn't say anything.

					INDY
			Please ... I could use the company.


EXT. THE CEMETERY - SUNDOWN

INDY and ABNER stand at the foot of Jones senior's grave.

					ABNER
			What was he like?



					INDY
			Strong.  Passionate.  Stubborn.
 
INDY turns introspective.

					ABNER
			Mr. Jones....how come you didn't contact
			my mom?  The letter I read asked you to
			get in touch with her.

					INDY
			I never got her letter, Abner.

					ABNER
				 (making sense of it)
			Letter said "return to sender" on
			it...did you move or something?

					INDY
			Dad and I moved to Boston about 4 years
			ago.

					ABNER
			Mom included a picture of me with the
			letter...me at 7....that was 4 years
			ago....you weren't at that address...so
			I guess the post office returned the
			letter...
					(beat)
			You know what's really sad, Mr.
			Jones...all these years my mom has hated
			you...herself...because she thought you
			sent back the letter.

					INDY
			Abner, if I could turn the clock back, I
			would.  We got a lot of catching up to
			do.  

An Interruption:	 

					VLADIMIROV'S VOICE 
			Doctor Jones?

INDY sees a big man in a long overcoat, head topped by a fedora. 
VLADIMIROV smiles warmly.  It makes sense to have VLADIMIROV speak
with a Russian accent.  So let's have him do so.    

					INDY
			Yes.  Can I help you?

					VLADIMIROV
			Please, Doctor, excuse my intrusion. 
			Your secretary said I might find you
			here.  My name is Yugi Vladimirov.  I am
			a captain with the Soviet Airforce.  Do
			you have a moment.  I wish to discuss
			something important with you.



					INDY
			This is not a good time.  I'm here with
			my ... son ... we're visiting his
			grandfather's grave.

					VLADIMIROV
			Henry Jones Senior ... yes, I knew of
			your father.  My condolences.  But
			please, Doctor, I will not take up much
			of your time.  What I have to tell you
			is of great archaeological importance. 


EXT. THE CEMETERY - JUST AFTER

THE SCENE BEGINS CLOSE ON VLADIMIROV'S WALKING FEET ... the souls
of his polished shoes ... they appear to be SMOULDERING.  Fine
wafts of smoke linger behind in his tracks.  Also -- but it makes
no sense at all -- we hear a distinct SIZZLING sound as his shoes
press against the grass.  Are we seeing things?

INDY and VLADIMIROV walk together, talking:		

					VLADIMIROV
			This was taken two days ago.  An ariel
			photograph of Mount Ararat.  Here, this
			will help.  

He hands INDY a magnifier.

					VLADIMIROV CONT.
			The section circled in red.  Do you see
			what is there?

					INDY
				 (looking through magnifier)
			Something protruding up through the
			snow.   Almost rectangular.

					VLADIMIROV
			Do you know the story of Noah and his
			Ark, Doctor?

					INDY
			Captain, I believe every school child
			knows that one.

					VLADIMIROV
				 (embarrassed slightly)
			Yes....Doctor, my apologies.  I am an
			educated man.  But sometimes I have
			difficulty dispelling my sense of Soviet
			superiority.  

					INDY
			You don't think this object is Noah's
			Ark?




					VLADIMIROV
			The Book of Genesis clearly disclosed
			the final resting place of the Ark:  Mt.
			Ararat.  Tales of men coming down from
			the mountain with pieces of preserved 
			timber -- from heights where trees do
			not grow -- have been told for
			centuries.

					INDY
			Excuse me for asking ... but when did
			the Russians start believing in the
			Bible?

					VLADIMIROV
			You see, Doctor...I am, how do you say:
			the black sheep of the family...I
			believe...and it is my hope to make you
			a believer as well.
					(beat)
			Yes, I too have had my bouts with faith. 
			In your book -- a good read by the 
			way --

INDY nods "thank you".

					VLADIMIROV CONT.	
			 -- you spoke about it in great detail. 
			Your point about faith being for
			children and fools intrigued me the
			most.
					(beat)
			But if the Ark is there, atop Mt.
			Ararat, then it stands as a testimony to
			God's word -- His vindication.  Doctor,
			peace of mind awaits us both.  

					INDY
			Sorry, but I can't help you.

					VLADIMIROV
			Doctor -- the Ark's discovery will shake
			the atheist institutions to their very
			foundations.  We are living in Godless
			times -- in the shadow of the atomic
			weapon.  You and I together can give the
			world what it needs: salvation.  

INDY isn't buying. 

					VLADIMIROV CONT.
					(aggravated)
			But, Doctor, you are an archaeologist. 
			Surely the historical significance of
			such a find is of interest to you.

INDY exhales heavily.




					VLADIMIROV CONT.
				 (calming down a bit)
			Please, Doctor, let me make you an
			offer: I am assembling an expedition
			team.  Your expertise in this area is
			what I require --  

					INDY
			Again: I'm not interested.  

					VLADIMIROV
			The job pays hand --

					INDY
				 (snapping)
			I don't want your money!  Now, 
			please -- I just wanna be left alone!

Following at a distance, but close enough to catch bits and pieces
of the conversation, is ABNER.  He reacts to what INDY just 
said, looking away, hurt.

BACK TO THE MEN:

					INDY
				 (exhaling)
			Captain, there are Russian
			archaeologists who can help you?

					VLADIMIROV
			Yes....but Doctor, you led an expedition
			of this kind before.  In '42.  The
			Andes.   

					INDY
				 (taken off guard)
			That was classified.  A secret mission
			for the U.S. Army.

					VLADIMIROV
			Military secrets are like boats,
			Doctor...they leak on occasion.  

					INDY
				 (direct)
			What's the real reason, Captain?  My
			Andes expedition was no great feat by
			any stretch of the imagination.

					VLADIMIROV
			True.  Alright, Doctor, I will be
			candid.  I am here today without the
			permission of my government.  I have not
			yet brought to their attention the
			object photographed on Ararat.

					INDY
			Why?



					VLADIMIROV
			I am a bit selfish, Doctor....and a
			dreamer.  To uncover something of such
			biblical importance is sure to make me a
			hero in the eyes of the world.

					INDY
				 (snidely)
			And what about your loyalty to the
			Kremlin?

					VLADIMIROV
			Yes....I am torn between duty and
			vanity.  But, Doctor, you most of all
			should understand vanity.

					INDY
				 (irked)
			Captain, you have the wrong man.  You're
			looking for a glory seeker.  I'm not
			him.

					VLADIMIROV
			I see...well, Doctor, I know when I'm
			beaten.  I will not bother you with this
			any more.  But in case you change your
			mind: there is a plane leaving Boston in
			the morning for Istanbul...I've taken
			the liberty of booking you on that
			flight.
			If you decide to come, remember: the
			expedition is being kept a secret.  So
			please be discreet.  
			The Turkish government would not approve
			of our poking around.   After you land
			in Istanbul, instructions direct you to
			the city of Dogubeyazit where the
			expedition party is being assembled. 
			The password is "skull".
				 (pulling out an envelope)
			Everything you need to know is in here. 

VLADIMIROV holds out the envelope.

					INDY
			I won't change my mind.

					VLADIMIROV
			In case you do.

INDY, being polite, takes the envelope. 

					VLADIMIROV
			It's nice to have met you.  Good day,
			Doctor.

INDY shakes VLADIMIROV'S big hand.  CLOSE UP -- THE CRYPTIC TATTOO
ON THE BACK OF THE RUSSIAN'S HAND.  

ABNER approaches.

					VLADIMIROV CONT.
				 (smiling)
			And a good day to you, young man.

					ABNER
				 (smiling)
			Bye.

The Captain walks away.  ABNER joins his father.

					INDY
			Captain!

VLADIMIROV turns around.

					INDY CONT.
			If it's a glory seeker you're after, try
			Doctor William Humphrey.  You'll find
			him on campus.

					VLADIMIROV
			Is he skilled?

					INDY
			He likes to think so.  

VLADIMIROV grins, tipping his hat "goodbye".

					ABNER
			Nice man.  Who is he?

					INDY
			Nobody important.

INDY crumples up the envelope.  ABNER watches INDY SHOVE IT into
his coat pocket.

					ABNER
			So what now?

					INDY
			Home.  You should call your mother and
			let her know you arrived okay.

					ABNER
				 (hiding something)
			Yeah.  Good idea.  

									CUT TO:


INT. ABNER'S BEDROOM BACK HOME - NIGHT

MARION RAVENWOOD, hung over, staggers into her son's bedroom.

					MARION
			Abner...you in here?  Abner?

MARION sees the SHOEBOX on the bed.


					MARION
			Dammit!  Oh, stupid!  Stupid! 

The shoebox's contents are scattered on the bed.  MARION finds the
opened letter.  Her knees buckle.  She tries to push back the pain
and tears.  She can't.  She breaks down.


INT. MARION'S LIVING ROOM - JUST AFTER

MARION is on the phone, all fired up now.  In her hand is a
newspaper clipping.  THE ARTICLE HEADLINE READS: BOSTON UNIVERSITY
WELCOMES WORLD RENOWN ARCHAEOLOGIST. 

					MARION
			Boston directory?  Yes, I need an
			address and phone number?


INT. INDY'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

ABNER is just finishing up a meal of sandwiches and milk.
INDY has the family PHOTO ALBUM OUT.  He is showing ABNER pictures
of Jones Senior as a young man.

					INDY
			That's Dad...he's about thirty
			here...that's him in Egypt, 1921 --

					ABNER
			He found king Tut's Tomb?!

					INDY
				 (amused)
			 No.  Dad was just doing research. 

					ABNER
				 (disappointed)
			Oh.
				 (pointing)
			Who's that?

					INDY
			Marcus Brody.  A friend of the family. 
			A great archaeologist in his day.  

					ABNER
			I'd like to meet him.

					INDY
			He passed away a few years ago.
				 (small voice)
			Everyone's leaving me.

ABNER feels for his father.  He lightens up the mood --

					ABNER
			Hey -- you wanna see my pictures.  I
			brought some with me.


ABNER digs into his backpack.  He pulls out a bundle of PHOTOS.

SOMETHING FALLS TO THE FLOOR.  INDY picks up ABNER'S PASSPORT.

					INDY
				 (amused)
			You brought your passport...?

					ABNER
			I thought I'd need it to get here.

					INDY
			You only need it when you leave the
			country.

ABNER puts the PASSPORT back in his pack.

					ABNER
				 (embarrassed)
			That's what the bus ticket lady said...

					INDY
			I'm surprised your mom didn't tell you.

ABNER looks guilty. 

THE PHONE RINGS.  INDY gets up and goes to the phone --

					INDY
				 (nervous)
			Maybe that's your mom...you did call
			her?

					ABNER
			Sure.  While you were making sandwiches.

					INDY
				 (deep breath; then into phone) 
			Hello? ...... No, I'm afraid he's not.
			Doctor Jones past away last year.  Thank
			you.  I'm his son, is there something I
			can do for you?

ABNER gets up from the couch and whispers --

					ABNER
			Where's the bathroom?

INDY covers the mouthpiece --

					INDY
			Upstairs.  End of the hall.


INT. FRONT DOOR HALLWAY

ABNER is about to take the stairs when he SPOTS INDY'S coat draped
over the railing.  




CUT: Now ABNER is sneakily digging out the CRUMBLED ENVELOPE from
INDY'S coat.


INT. WASHROOM UPSTAIRS - JUST AFTER

ABNER locks the door.  He quickly uncrumples the envelope.  INSIDE
IS A PLANE TICKET AND A FEW SHEETS OF FOLDED STATIONARY WITH TYPED
INSTRUCTIONS ON THEM.  ABNER begins to read...

A moment.  Then ABNER'S eyes bug out --

					ABNER
			Noah's Ark!  Holy Toledo!  They found
			it!


INT. MARION'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

MARION is getting a BUSY SIGNAL.  She slams down the handset!
   
					MARION
			Goddammit! 

MARION thinks hard for a moment.  Then she snatches up the
receiver again.

					MARION
			Operator?  I need a phone number.  The
			bus station.  

									CUT TO:


INT. SPARE BEDROOM IN INDY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

INDY gets ABNER into bed and tucks him in.

					ABNER
			Mom used to tuck me all the time...but
			she stopped.  

					INDY
			Why's that?

					ABNER
			Mom hasn't been herself the last couple
			of years.  She's been hitting the bottle
			a little too heavily.  If you know what
			I mean.

					INDY
				 (a sinking feeling)
			Sorry.

					ABNER
			It's not your fault.  She just thinks
			it's your fault. 

INDY can't hold back a smile.

					INDY
			Get some sleep.

INDY heads for the door.

					ABNER
			The man you talked to today...was he
			trying to hire you for something?

In the doorway --

					INDY
			An expedition.

					ABNER
			How come you didn't take his offer?

					INDY
			It's something you wouldn't understand.

					ABNER
			Your dad died...made you feel all bad
			inside...like nothing can ever be good
			again.   
					
					INDY
			You read my mind.

					ABNER
			I get that ability from mom, too.

					INDY
			That's one talent you can do without.

					ABNER
			Mr. Jones...

					INDY
			Indy.

					ABNER
			Indy....maybe you and me can go on a big
			adventure some day?

					INDY
			I'd like that.

					ABNER			
			It'll give ya boast.  You know, getcha
			back on your feet.

					INDY
				 (smiling)
			Goodnight.

					ABNER
			'Night.

INDY closes the door.  At which point ABNER throws off the bed
covers.  He goes to his backpack and takes out the PLANE TICKET.
 
					ABNER
				 (stars in his eyes)
			A big adventure: The search for Noah's
			Ark.

									CUT TO:


INT. INDY'S BEDROOM - LATE AT NIGHT

INDY is stirring in his sleep.


INT. INDY'S LIVING ROOM - DREAM

INDY'S bags are packed.  In a rush, INDY is talking on the phone
while at the time fussing to put on his trenchcoat:

					INDY
			Dad!  I gotta go!  I know it's your
			birthday -- I -- I -- listen: I got a
			call from the Jordanian Department of
			Antiquities.  They found some 
			scrolls --  Yes, I know you're in the
			hospital!  Stop it, Dad!  You're not
			gonna die!  Yes I care!   

CLICK!  IT ECHOES ABNORMALLY.

					INDY
			Dad?  Dad!  Dammit!

INDY slams down the receiver.

A voice --

					DAD'S
			Junior.

INDY spins around.  His FATHER is standing behind him in a
hospital gown.

					INDY
			Dad!

					DAD
			Happy birthday.

DAD'S MOUTH OPENS HORRIBLY WIDE AND A HAND POPS OUT CLUTCHING A
CANDLE LIT MUFFIN.  THE HAND MASHES THE MUFFIN BETWEEN ITS
FINGERS!


INT. BACK IN INDY'S BEDROOM 

as INDY snaps awake -- and hears POUNDING on the front door,
shooting up from downstairs.  

INDY looks at the bedside clock: 4:30 in the morning.  INDY'S face
says "who could that be at this hour?"


INT. FOYER

INDY throws open the front door.  MARION doesn't wait to be 
asked -- she barges right in.

					INDY
			Marion!

					MARION
			Where is he?!  Where's Abner?!

INDY is all flustered.

					MARION
			Where's my son, goddammit?!

					INDY
			You mean our son.

MARION snarls.

					MARION
			No, mister -- my son!  You had your
			chance years ago!

					INDY
				 (overlapping)
			Marion, lis -- listen to me!

					MARION
			I want Abner right now!

					INDY
			Marion, please.  He's okay.  He's
			upstairs sleeping.  

MARION pushes past INDY to the stairs and yells up them --

					MARION
			Abner!  Abner!

INDY grabs MARION by her arm --

					MARION
			Get your filthy hands off me, you dirty
			bastard!

					INDY
			What the hell's wrong with you?  I
			didn't get your stupid letter!

					MARION
			You sent it back!  Unopened!  One look
			at my name on the envelope and you
			dropped it back into the mail box!

					INDY
			Please, Marion.  Just give me a chance
			to explain.


					MARION
			Explain!  You wanna explain?  Try
			explaining why 12 years ago we went for
			a drink.  Explain why, that night, we
			made love.  Explain why you didn't call
			me -- ever!  12 years you sonofabitch! 
			12 years.  Nothing!  Not even a goddamn
			post card!   

					INDY
			I --

She surprises him with right-hook across his chin!  

					MARION
			Save it!  

INDY rubs his chin, shaken.

					INDY
			I deserved that.  Maybe I deserved a lot
			of things.  But I didn't deserve you.

					MARION
			What the hell's that supposed to mean?!

					INDY
			Marion...what kind of life could I've
			given you?  I didn't try and contact you
			because....because I felt I didn't
			deserve you.  You're too good a lady. 
			Too good for a bum like me.

					MARION
			It's about goddamn time you realized
			that!

					INDY
			You're not making this easy.

					MARION
			Don't talk to me about easy!  You've had
			it easy all your rotten, stinking life! 
			You know why?  Because you never had to
			care about anybody.  The first sign of
			commitment or responsibility and you
			went running back to your picks and
			shovels!  Back to your ancient ruins! 
			Well, if that's where you wanna be, then
			that's fine with me!  I'll just take my
			son and let you get back to the one
			thing I know you love!

MARION starts up the stairs.

					INDY
				 (small voice)
			I gave it up? 




MARION halts on the stairs.  Tears are swelling in her eyes.  INDY
goes to her.  

					INDY
			Nothing, Marion.  I've been right here,
			in Boston...12 months now.
					(wryly)
			A record.

MARION surprises INDY by throwing her arms around him.

					MARION
			I've hated you for so long.
  
INDY embraces her.

					INDY
			You've had every right to.

Their eyes meet.  They kiss long and deep.  They break now and
INDY wipes away her tears.  MARION cracks a remark:

					MARION
			Christ, you got old.

INDY chuckles.  MARION hugs him again.

					INDY
			I feel old.

					MARION
			You and me both.

INDY frowns now ... something puzzles him.

					INDY
			Marion ... you didn't know Abner came to
			see me?

					MARION
			No ... he saw the letter.  My
			clippings... I figured he made the
			connection.  Why?

					INDY
			Abner told me you put him on a bus to
			come here.  
					(smirking)
			Little scammer lied to me.

					MARION
			He must get that from you.

INDY chuckles.

									CUT TO:






EXT. BOSTON INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - MORNING
									
CIRCA: LATE 1940'S.


INT. THE AIRPORT PASSENGER TERMINAL - MORNING

ABNER holds THE PLANE TICKET from the envelope, waiting
impatiently for departure time.  A beat.  Another.  Then:

					OVER P.A.
			Flight 36 to Azores, Rome, Istanbul now
			boarding at gate 7.

ABNER jumps up and runs to:


GATE 7   

A FEMALE TICKET TAKER is seeing TRAVELLERS through the gate.

					TICKET TAKER
			Thank you...thank you...have a nice
			flight...

ABNER IS NEXT --

					TICKET TAKER
			Hello there.  Are you flying alone?

					ABNER
				 (nervous)
			Uh-huh...

The TAKER checks ABNER'S ticket.  

THE RAIDERS' MARCH mixes up faintly; just audible enough to make
us smile.

					ABNER
			Istanbul...that's in Turkey, right?

					TICKET TICKER
			Yes it is.  Are you meeting a relative
			or parent there?

					ABNER
			My dad.

A tense few seconds.  Then:

					TICKET TAKER		 
			Enjoy your flight.

SHARPLY CUT TO:







THE FULL SCREEN MAP:

Images of ABNER'S DC-3 in flight are SUPERIMPOSED over the
adventure map.  THE RAIDERS' MARCH jumps in big and loud as a
solid red line starts at BOSTON, goes across the Atlantic Ocean,
connects to the AZORES, to ROME, and lastly to ISTANBUL.
    
									DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. ISTANBUL AIRPORT, TURKEY - SUNRISE!

ABNER'S plane comes to a stop.  The universal step is wheeled into
position.

The aircraft's door opens wide and ABNER, the first one out,
rushes down the steps.


INT. INDY'S LIVING ROOM, STATE SIDE - SUNSET!  

INDY and MARION are both crashed out on the couch.  They fell
asleep here ... or is it something else?

FRAME ADJUSTS and reveals TWO EMPTY WINE BOTTLES on the coffee
table.  They're not asleep.  They're passed out!

The phone starts to RING.  INDY stirs.  The sharp RINGING hurts
his head.  It stops.  MARION GROANS.  INDY glances at his
wristwatch -- WHAT?!

					INDY
			Six o'clock!

INDY recoils from his own voice -- he's got one whooper of a
hangover.


INT. FRONT DOOR HALLWAY

INDY staggers out into the hallway and -- hey, what's that?

INDY SEES A NOTE TACKED TO THE FRONT DOOR.


INT. THE SPARE ROOM UPSTAIRS - JUST AFTER

INDY rushes into the room in a panic.  ABNER IS GONE! 

					INDY
			This isn't funny!


INT. THE LIVING ROOM DOWNSTAIRS

INDY shakes MARION out of her drunken sleep.

					INDY
			Marion!  Marion!



					MARION
				 (cranky)
			Wha -- what?  Stop -- stop it!  

					INDY
			Now, Marion -- I want you to stay calm,
			okay.  Listen to me: Abner's gone.    

MARION'S eyes snap wide open!

					MARION
			Whuddaya mean "he's gone"?!  

INDY hands her the note.

					MARION
			Indy!  

					INDY
			Read it.

					MARION
				 (rubbing her eyes; reading)
			"Dear Indy: I know what'll put you back
			on your feet.
				 (grimacing)
			What's this --

					INDY
			Just read it!

					MARION
				 (reading)
			"I know what'll put you back on your
			feet.  You said that one day we'd go on
			a big adventure.  Well I say there's no
			time like the present.  I've gone to
			look for the Ark.  You know where to
			find me."
					(grimacing)
			The Ark?  The Ark of the Covenant?!

					INDY
			Noah's Ark.

					MARION
			Noah's Ark?! 
				 (in his face)
			You bastard!  You've been filling his
			head with crazy stories!  

					INDY
			I haven't been filling his head with any
			stories!  He must of over heard my
			conversation yesterday.  

MARION is confused.




					INDY CONT.
			A Russian man came to see me -- about an
			expedition -- he gave me some
			instructions -- a plane ticket -- Abner
			overhead us.  That's all.  Abner's just
			playing games.


INT. ISTANBUL CUSTOMS CONTROL - THAT MOMENT

ABNER is with the 

					TURKISH CONTROL OFFICER
					(gruffly)
			Your passport.

					ABNER
				 (confused)
			My --
				 (then he remembers)
			Yeah -- it's in my bag.
					
A BAGGAGE INSPECTOR is pulling items from ABNER'S backpack.  The
inspector fumbles with ABNER'S camera and almost drops it!

					ABNER CONT.
			Hey!  Watch it there!  That's a gift,
			pal! 

The inspector grins sheepishly.


INT. INDY'S LIVING ROOM - THAT MOMENT

INDY takes MARION by her shoulders.  He smiles reassuringly.  

					INDY
			Marion ... he's alright.  Trust me.

					MARION
				 (a bad feeling)
			This plane ticket...did you throw it
			away?

					INDY
			Yes -- of course.

MARION breathes a little easier.  INDY, however, looks as if he
just remembered something. 

CUT TO: INDY, now in the front hall, as he searches his coat
pockets for the crumpled envelope.  It isn't here.  

INDY'S REACTION -- TRUE PANIC!








EXT. ISTANBUL CUSTOMS CONTROL - THAT MOMENT

BACK TO THE:

					TURKISH CONTROL OFFICER
				 (he has Abner's passport)    
			This passport has expired.  

					ABNER
			Ah...that's bad, right?

					TURKISH CONTROL OFFICER
				 (impatient)
			Why are you here in Istanbul?  

					ABNER
				 (fidgety)
			Ah....I'm meeting my dad.		

ABNER pulls out the typed instruction sheet.  He scans it briefly.

					ABNER CONT.
			Erzurum.  That's the place.

					TURKISH CONTROL OFFICER
			Your father is there now?

					ABNER
				 (breaking the tension)
			Give that man a cigar!  

The BAGGAGE INSPECTOR sniggers.

					TURKISH CONTROL OFFICER
			What is your father's name?  At what
			hotel is he staying?

ABNER is starting to feel the pressure.


INT. INDY'S LIVING ROOM - THAT MOMENT

					MARION
				 (hysterical)
			Indy!  Oh god -- if he left last 
			night -- do you know how much time he's
			had?  While I was passed out on the
			couch my boy ran off to Turkey!

					INDY 
				 (being rational)
			Marion ... calm down ... just think for
			a moment here: no one's going to let a
			little boy on a plane to Turkey.

					MARION
			That's not true!  A year ago Abner
			visited his aunt in London -- by
			himself.


					INDY
			Okay -- but you put him on the plane,
			right?  And Marion, he couldn't have
			left the country.  He needs a pass --

HHHELLO!

INDY rushes to the phone.  He dials quickly.

					MARION
			Indy!  What -- who are you calling? 
			Indy!

Dread seizes MARION.

					MARION CONT.
			Indy, no -- tell me they didn't let him
			in to the country!

					INDY
				 (not so sure now)
			Turkey's a Democratic Republic...it's a
			tourist trap these days.		 
				 (into phone)
			Yes -- operator -- overseas connection:
			Istanbul, Turkey.


EXT. ISTANBUL CUSTOMS CONTROL - THAT MOMENT 

					ABNER
			Listen, buster, my dad's a big important
			archaeologist.  He won't be too happy
			when he hears about you harassing me
			like this.

					TURKISH CONTROL OFFICER
				 (real impatient now)    
			I'll ask you again: what hotel?

ABNER is losing his cool.
			
					TURKISH CONTROL OFFICER
				 (barking)
			What hotel?!

ABNER jerks back and almost drops his pack.  He doesn't have an
answer.

A WOMAN SHRIEKS SUDDENLY!  ALL HEADS TURN HER WAY.  

A PEASANT BOY is making off with a TOURIST WOMAN'S PURSE.  AIRPORT
SECURITY chase the PEASANT BOY. 

The CONTROL OFFICER is disinterested and turns back to continue
drilling -- 

BUT ABNER IS GONE!




EXT. A BUSTLING CITY STREET, ISTANBUL - JUST AFTER

ABNER ducks into:

AN ALLEY and gets out of sight.  ABNER takes a moment to catch his
breath.  PHEW!   That was close.  ABNER takes out the instruction
sheets and goes over them.

					ABNER
				 (reading)
			"Istanbul train station.  Purchase
			ticket to Erzurum."


EXT. THE CITY OF ISTANBUL - DAY - OVERLOOK VIEW 

Of the sprawling ancient metropolis with districts separated by
channels of blue water.  There is so much to marvel at.  A
stunning Muslim temple, its needle-like minarets spiking the sky;
a grand domed palace; and assorted edifices of another age.


EXT. ISTANBUL RAILWAY STATION - TICKET WINDOW - DAY

ABNER pays for the train ticket out of the cash he stole from the
coffee can.

					ABNER
			Thank you.


THE FRAME ADJUSTS: THERE IS A SUSPICIOUS LOOKING MAN WATCHING
ABNER AS HE WALKS OUT ONTO THE RAILWAY PLATFORM.  CALL HIM, SPY.


INT. PLATFORM'S PUBLIC PHONEBOOTH - JUST AFTER

The SPY is on the phone, talking to someone:

					SPY 
			Comrade Captain, I am at the train
			station.  Doctor Jones was not on the
			plane.  But something that might
			interest you: an American boy has
			purchased a ticket to Erzurum.


INT. VLADIMIROV'S WOODLAND ESTATE, OUTSIDE MOSCOW - ESTABLISHING 
- DAY

VLADIMIROV is not only an important man but a rich man too.  His
estate rivals the best of Europe.

					VLADIMIROV'S VOICE
			An American boy buying tickets -- why
			would such a thing interest me?






INT. VLADIMIROV'S ESTATE - THE STUDY - DAY  

The big Russian is on the phone with his spy:

					VLADIMIROV
			Doctor Jones used the ticket I gave to
			him.  The Boston airport confirmed this.

					SPY'S VOICE OVER PHONE
			Yes, comrade Captain.  But as I said:
			Doctor Jones was not on the plane --
			only the American boy got off.    

At first VLADIMIROV is baffled.  Then it starts to make sense to
him.

					VLADIMIROV
				 (harbingers a guess)
			The doctor's son?  
					(into phone)
			Follow the boy.  See where he takes you.

VLADIMIROV hangs up.  He looks thoughtful.  THE PHONE RINGS.  He
answers it.  

					VLADIMIROV 
			Yes?

					MAN'S VOICE OVER PHONE 
			Comrade, you are worse than a woman.
			Tying up official lines talking to your
			girlfriends, huh?

					VLADIMIROV 
			Comrade Premier.  A pleasure to receive
			your call.

There's a KNOCK at the study door.  

					VLADIMIROV 
			Comrade Premier, please, a moment. 
			Come!

A BUTLER enters.  Call him 

					ALEXANDER 
			A Mr. Farnsworth to see you, sir.

					VLADIMIROV 
			Yes.  Excellent.  
				 (into phone)
			I do not wish to rush you, comrade
			Premier, but I have important matters I
			must attend to.

					PREMIER'S VOICE OVER PHONE 
			Ah, yes, and no doubt these matters
			concern those of the two breasted, two
			legged kind!  
					(MORE)


					PREMIER'S VOICE OVER PHONE CONT.
			But do not worry, comrade.  I will let
			you attend to those matters shortly. 
			But first I want you to confirm your
			attendance at Fridays's test -- an
			important day in Soviet history -- a day
			which should not be missed.  

					VLADIMIROV 
			I'll be sure to make it my highest
			priority, comrade Premier.

					PREMIER'S VOICE OVER PHONE 
			Excellent.  I will expect to see you
			there then.


INT.  VLADIMIROV'S ESTATE - LIVING ROOM - JUST AFTER

The decor majestic.  15th century Gothic.

					VLADIMIROV
			Welcome to my home, Mr. Farnsworth.  I
			see you have brought me a surprise.   

MR. FARNSWORTH, a British man in his 40's, holds a large black
container about the size of a breadbox.   

					FARNSWORTH
			I had no trouble getting it into the
			country.  You must have friends in high
			places, Mr. Vladimirov.

					VLADIMIROV
			Yes...being a member of the Soviet
			Military has its advantages.  Please,
			sit.  I am anxious to see what you
			brought me.

					FARNSWORTH
			I suffered a great deal concealing these
			remains from the world.  Many sleepless
			nights over the past three years.  I
			want to be compensated for my pain.

					VLADIMIROV
			Compensation beyond your wildest
			imaginations, Mr. Farnsworth.  Now, if
			you please, I wish to view the remains.

Farnsworth hands over the box.  VLADIMIROV takes it and walks to a
large, antique desk.  He sets the box down.  Eyes wide, VLADIMIROV
removes the lid.  Inside are --

HUMAN REMAINS.  BONES.

					FARNSWORTH
			We found him buried under the ceiling of
			his bombed out bunker.  
					(MORE)

					FARNSWORTH CONT.
			An army compatriot and myself found the
			body together, just after the fall of
			Berlin.  Only three people know the true
			identity of those remains.  You, myself,
			and my compatriot, who I'm afraid is
			dead now.

					VLADIMIROV
			My condolences.  Mr. Farnsworth, may I
			ask why you never told the world?  Why
			you would not want to soothe the minds
			and souls of a world torn by war;
			comfort those disturbed by the
			holocaust?  Remains of the most evil man
			of the 20th century lie in this box.  I
			myself would have ran into the streets,
			shouting "the man is dead!"  "Hitler is
			dead"!  So why, Mr. Farnsworth...?  

					FARNSWORTH
			I can't say...something came over me,
			standing in that bunker....something
			told me there would be a day when I
			would profit immensely.  

					VLADIMIROV
			Yes, Mr. Farnsworth, you were smart to
			have listened.  And yes, you will profit
			immensely.
				 (dramatic pause)
			However, money will not be your reward.

Farnsworth stiffens with alarm.

					FARNSWORTH
			What...what do you mean?

					VLADIMIROV
			A greater gift has been bestowed upon
			you.  You are among the fortunate. 
			Those few who will not have to bare
			witness to the end of all Godkind.

Farnsworth realises his life is about to end. 

					VLADIMIROV CONT.
			Your gift, Mr. Farnsworth -- death.  

Up comes a pistol in VLADIMIROV'S hand -- CRACK!		 
			 
CUT TO:

BLACK SCREEN.

A second.  Then light spills in as a door opens right below us. 
The shot is from high above a stone staircase, steps spiralling
downward into the murky depths.   VLADIMIROV appears, the box in
hand, and descends the staircase.


INT. UNDERGROUND - HIGH STONE CORRIDOR

VLADIMIROV approaches a heavy wooden door at the corridor's end. 
The stretch of underpass is lit spookily by candles.  HUMANOID
STATUES, menacing and horrid, run in numbers down the corridor's
full length.

CLOSE UP - ONE OF THESE HORRID STATUES: THE MAN-BEAST IS EATING A
SMALL CHILD.  AT ITS HOOFED FEET ARE MORE SMALL CHILDREN.  THEY
ARE SCREAMING, SHACKLED TO THE BEAST'S ANKLES.


INT. UNDERGROUND CRYPTIC CHAMBER

The air in here is think with evil.  VLADIMIROV sets the box down
on a stone table where a LARGE, LEATHER BOUND TOME is perched. 
Dozens upon dozens of black candles cast an eerie light, flicking
off the damp, brimstone walls.  There is a LOW RUMBLE ... the hum
of evil ... as if the chamber walls might be the only barrier
between us and the fiery pits of Hell.   

VLADIMIROV bows before a shrine which amounts to AN UPRIGHT,
COCOON SHAPED CASKET.  

VLADIMIROV parts the casket's double lid.  They come apart,
slowly, like the jaws of a giant venus flytrap.

Inside is something macabre ... simple ... but nonetheless
frightening.  Inside is a

HUMAN SKELETON.  ALL COMPLETE EXCEPT FOR TWO ARMS AND THE HEAD.   

>From the black box, VLADIMIROV gently removes the bones which make
up one of Hitler's arms.  

VLADIMIROV begins to reassemble the bones on the table, one piece
at a time, while CHANTING a cryptic incantation, and we --

PUSH IN ON THE HEADLESS SKELETON ... CHILLING ... and  

CUT TO:

ABNER -- ON BOARD A TRAIN -- looking out the window at the bleak
and lonely highlands of Northeastern Turkey.  

Seated a few rows back is VLADIMIROV'S spy.  He is keeping a
watchful eye on ABNER.

	
INT. INDY'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

INDY hangs up the phone, visibly worried.

					MARION
			What?  What did they say?  Indy! 
			Goddammit!





					INDY
			Marion...now listen to me: a baggage
			inspector at Istanbul Airport remembers
			Abner.

					MARION
			Oh my god -- no!

					INDY
			He's okay.  He got this far.  
				 (smirking)
			Give him some credit.

					MARION
			Credit?!  Indy, for chrissakes, he's
			just a little boy!    
				 (barking)
			It's all your fault!

					INDY
			My fault?  

					MARION
				 (mockingly)
			Adventure -- archaeology -- it's in his
			blood!    

INDY takes her by the shoulders.

					INDY CONT.
				 (soothingly) 
			I need you calm ... okay ... nothing's
			going to happen to Abner.  I told the
			authorities about the situation.  If --
			when -- they see Abner, they're gonna
			ship him right back here on the next
			available flight.

MARION is gawking at INDY in disbelief.  She shoves him aside and
goes to the phone.

					INDY
			Marion...what are you doing?

					MARION
				 (into phone)
			Operator, Boston Airport.

					INDY
			Marion, flying off to Turkey is
			ridiculous!  The authorities'll find
			Abner.  By the time you get there he'll
			already be on his way back home!

					MARION
				 (into phone)
			Yes, I want to book a flight to
			Istanbul, Turkey.



					INDY
			You're not listening!

					MARION
				 (into phone)
			Yes, one ticket.

					INDY
				 (growling)
			Make it two.

					MARION
			He's not your responsibility!

					INDY
			Abner's my son!  That makes him my
			responsibility!    

					MARION
			You don't have to do this, Indy!  I
			don't want your guilt!

					INDY
			Goddammit -- just make the flight for
			two!

					MARION
				 (into phone)
			Make that two.  When is the next flight?
					(pause)
			Friday morning!  That's two days from
			now!
					(to INDY)
			I can't wait that long.

Pause.

					INDY
				 (at a lose)
			What choice do we have?

HOLD on MARION'S face.  Desperate. 

									CUT TO:


EXT. ERZURUM'S NONDESCRIPT RAILWAY STATION - LATE IN THE DAY

ABNER steps down off the train.  He walks slowly along the
platform, reading from the instruction sheets.

					ABNER
			"At Erzurum hire a taxicab.  Take it to
			the town of 
				 (says it like it's spelt)
			Dogubeyazit."  
				 (making a face)
			Dogubeyazit.



ABNER looks around.  He SEES A FEW LOCAL CABBIES chatting nearby,
leaned up against their junk-box taxicabs.

					ABNER
			Those are taxicabs -- look more like
			out-houses on wheels.  

ABNER sighs resignedly.

									CUT TO:


EXT. THE ANCIENT CARAVAN ROUTE - SOON AFTER

ABNER'S cab putt-putts along the ancient roadway, making slow
tracks eastward across the eroded, hilly pastures of the North
East. 

					ABNER'S VOICE
					(chatty)
			My dad and me -- he's a big, famous
			archaeologist -- maybe you heard of him:
			Doctor Henry Jones?

					CABBY'S VOICE
				 (moaning)
			Mmmm.

					ABNER'S VOICE CONT.
			He wrote a book and everything.  Anyway,
			me and my dad are here -- well my dad's
			not here yet -- but he's coming...I'm
			sure of that...


EXT. THE OTTOMAN BRIDGE - SOON AFTER

ABNER'S cab back-fires, chugging across the architecturally
graceful Ottoman bridge which spans the narrow Aras river. 

					ABNER'S VOICE CONT.
			...I don't think it's fair...do you
			think it's fair?

					CABBY'S VOICE
			Mmmmm.

					ABNER'S VOICE CONT.
			Lucy -- we all call her Lucy-caboosey at
			school, on account of her big butt --
			she's always getting off scott-free.
			One time she stole my brand new pen set
			mom gave me for Christmas -- 
				 (interrupting himself)
			Hey, we almost there?

					CABBY'S VOICE
			Mmmm.




INT. ABNER'S CAB - SOON AFTER

ABNER is jolted out of his seat by the view outside.  Eyes big and
wide, he mutters the words: 

					ABNER
			Mount Ararat.


EXT. THE CAB - APPROACH TO DOGUBEYAZIT

THERE, ON THE HORIZON, THE STUPENDOUS APPARITION OF MT. ARARAT. 

					ABNER'S VOICE
			Holy Toledo!

					CABBY'S VOICE
			Mmmm.

										CUT TO:


EXT. THE GHETTO TOWN OF DOGUBEYAZIT - SUNDOWN

The cab pulls over.  Dark and filthy buildings, packed together,
stand on both sides of the narrow cobblestone street.  ABNER pays
the cabby and gets out.    

A CLOSER LOOK AT THE CABBY: a grimy handkerchief, ends tied at the
top of his head, holds a cold compress against his check.  Poor
guy has a toothache.   

					ABNER
			Better get somebody to look at that
			tooth.

					CABBY
			Mmmm.  

					ABNER
			Bye.


EXT. MERCHANT SQUARE - JUST AFTER

ABNER walks along, passing by TURKISH MERCHANTS who shout loudly,
advertising their goods to the LOCALS.    

A PEASANT BOY runs up to ABNER --

					PEASANT BOY
			You, American boy!  Want to buy Turkish
			dictionary?  Good price.  2 American
			dollars.

ABNER considers it.

					ABNER
			Turkish dictionary...might be useful. 
			Okay, sure.

ABNER pulls out the thick bundle of cash.  The peasant boy's eyes
light up.

					PEASANT BOY
			You big shot American, huh?

ABNER hands over two one dollar bills.  The peasant boy hands over
the dictionary.

					PEASANT BOY
				 (always the salesmen)
			You need things?  I get you anything!
			The best!

					ABNER
			Know where the Dogu (says it like it's
			spelt) cafe is?

					PEASANT BOY
			Dogu (says it do-u).  Very close by. I
			show the way for 5 American dollars. 
			Cheap price.

					ABNER
			Five bucks!  Cost me only a dollar to
			get from Erzurum to here!

					PEASANT BOY
			4 American dollars.

					ABNER
			Forget it, kid.  For that price, I'll
			find it myself.


EXT. ANOTHER STREET/QUIETER SECTION OF TOWN - SUNDOWN 

ABNER walks up to a LOCAL.

					ABNER
			Excuse me, do you know where the Dogu
			(says it do-u) Cafe is?

The LOCAL grimaces, not understanding, and barks "Defol!" (Turkish
for "Beat it!")  ABNER scowls.  But then he remembers the
dictionary he bought.  He pulls it out of his backpack.  He flips
through the pages ... and soon realizes --

					ABNER
			There's no english!  It's all in
			Turkish.  Right -- Turkish dictionary. 
			Little scammer.

SWOOSH!  A ZIP PAN reveals the crooked peasant boy.  He looks
mean.  Even meaner looking are his 2 TEENAGE HENCHMEN.  They stand
behind him like dutiful soldiers.  A curt snap of the finger sends
the obedient henchmen running off in different directions.





EXT. ANOTHER STREET - DUSK  

ABNER walks along, checking store signs, looking for the Dogu
Cafe.    

Now ABNER takes heed of a teenage peasant -- TEEN HENCHMAN #1 
-- standing in a pool of street light, watching him.  

ABNER gets a bad feeling.  He backs up slowly and bumps right into
TEEN HENCHMAN #2!  

They force ABNER back into a: 


EXT. NARROW ALLEY

ABNER backs away from the henchmen as they come together and block
the alley opening.  ABNER glances quickly behind him -- A DEAD
END!

The peasant boy leader EMERGES from the shadows of a doorway off
to the side.  A Lucky Strike dangles in his mouth.

					PEAS. BOY LEADER
			Streets bad place at night for little
			boys.   

					ABNER
			Who you callin' a little boy, runt!

					PEAS. BOY LEADER
			Your money -- now!

					ABNER
			Like hell!

SHHHINK!  The leader whips out a knife and steps in close.

					ABNER
			Whoa Nelly ... settle down.  Okay
			...here...

ABNER holds up the cash.

					PEAS. BOY LEADER
				 (lowering the knife)
			Smart boy.

ABNER surprises the runt with a KNEE TO HIS CROTCH!  

					ABNER
			Smarter than you think!

The leader doubles over.  The henchmen see this and spring into
action!  ABNER shoves aside the gasping leader and bolts through
the doorway of a:






INT. SLUM APARTMENT BUILDING

ABNER scrambles to a door at the end of the hall -- IT'S LOCKED!
ABNER runs back -- but halts as the teenage henchmen pile inside!

ABNER sees a flight of stairs.  He runs over and flies up them.


EXT. THE ROOF TOP - NIGHT

ABNER crashes through an exterior door and finds himself on the
roof.  No good!  He runs back in through the doorway 
and -- freezes!  SOUNDS: SCUFFLING FOOTSTEPS -- the henchmen are
on their way up!


EXT. ROOF'S STONE WALL LEDGE

ABNER looks down over the wall.  HE'S FOUR STORIES UP.  

ABNER regards a series of small balconies which go down like steps
to the street.  But ABNER would have to be pretty desperate to use
those as an impromptu escape route.  Behind ABNER, the henchmen
pour out onto the roof!  ABNER just got desperate.

ABNER kicks a leg over the wall.  Then the other.  He sits on the
wall, hesitating, scared.  

ABNER pushes off -- and just in time -- AS THE ARMS OF A HENCHMAN
REACH IN AND GRAB AT OPEN AIR!  

ABNER drops about ten feet and LANDS on the top most balcony.  He
snaps a LOOK UP.  The henchmen are following him.  He snaps
ANOTHER LOOK to a clothes line just above his head.  It stretches
out, high over the street, and connects to a balcony on the
opposite side.  Bad idea! 

					ABNER
			Are you crazy?  No way Jose!
				 (yelling)
			Help!  Help me!

ABNER pounds on the glass door of the balcony.  A light blinks on
inside the apartment.  

Suddenly a haggard old woman's face POPS IN at the window.  ABNER
cries out, jolted, and jerks back -- too far!  

ABNER falls backward over the balcony railing.  ABNER thinks fast
and GRABS HOLD of the clothes line.  But the WHEELED LINE gives
way to his weight and he goes sailing out away from the balcony -- 

AND FINDS HIMSELF HANGING OVER THE STREET SOME 30 FEET UP!  

To the rescue, the OLD WOMAN rushes out onto the balcony and
starts pulling in the clothes line.  ABNER yells out, hanging on
for dear life, feeling dizzy from the HEIGHT.  





Suddenly the two henchmen DROP IN on the old woman and she YELPS.
Inadvertently, she lets go of the line.  ABNER wheels back out
away from the balcony!  

HENCHMAN #1 pushes and shoves the old woman back into her
apartment.  HENCHMAN #2, with evil grin, starts to pull and jerk
on clothes line.  Back and forth.  ABNER cries out, scared for his
life.  The two henchmen just laugh.

EEEEEEYAAAH!  What the hell is that?!  It's the old woman.  She
runs back out onto the balcony, armed with a BROOM.  She whacks
the nasty henchmen -- on their HEADS, BACKS, RUMPS!  OUCH!  EE! 
AW!  OOH!  The two henchmen scramble into the apartment.  They
bolt for the front door.  And are gone in a flash.

The old woman to the rescue again: she grabs hold of the clothes
line and starts to pull ABNER back in --

Now ABNER is back on the balcony, safe, with the old woman fussing
over him.  

					ABNER
			Yes...thank you -- thank you.  


INT. HALL OUTSIDE THE OLD WOMAN'S APARTMENT

ABNER steps out into the hall with the old lady still fussing over
him.  She speaks in TURKISH.

					ABNER
			Thank you ... thank you ... alright 
			... okay --  Enough already!


EXT. OUT IN FRONT OF THE SLUM BUILDING - NIGHT

ABNER is just tucking in his shirt tails when he halts in his
tracks -- 

THE TEENAGE HENCHMEN ARE WAITING FOR HIM ACROSS THE STREET!  

ABNER, frantic, looks around for a direction to run in as the
henchmen step off the curb and start across the street toward him. 
At which point -- HONK!  HONK!

A lumbering DELIVERY TRUCK forces the henchmen back up onto the
curb.  They wait for the truck to pass.  And when it has, the
henchmen move out to get -- 

BUT ABNER IS GONE!

										CUT TO:


EXT. ANOTHER SECTION OF TOWN - NIGHT

The DELIVERY TRUCK pulls over to the curb and parks in front of a
ghetto tavern.  



Starting on the DRIVER, the CAMERA DROPS DOWN and reveals ABNER 
clinging to the passenger-side door handle, his feet up on the
running board.
   
ABNER steps down off the truck.    

ABNER looks up at the tavern sign and smiles -- DOGU CAFE!


INT. DOGU CAFE - NIGHT

ABNER walks right in and is unfazed by the smoke and filthy
atmosphere.  TURKISH PATRONS, the rough-and-tumble type, eye ABNER
silently and coldly as he steps to the bar. 

ABNER hops up onto a stool and leans in close to the BARTENDER.

					ABNER
				 (whispering; secretive)
			Skull.

The bartender gives ABNER a strange look.  

					ABNER
				 (emphasizing the word)
			Skull.

The bartender shakes his head and attends to thirsty patrons. 
ABNER growls, frustrated.  He spins around on the stool to face
the bar proper --

EVERYONE IN THE PLACE IS LOOKING DIRECTLY AT HIM.  ABNER looks
back evenly at the room full of nasty face locals.

Now ABNER spots a WHITE MAN at a table and drops off the stool. 
He walks heavily to the rear of the bar.

The WHITE MAN watches ABNER curiously as he takes a seat at the
table.

ABNER makes sure no one is listening and then leans in over the 
table.

					ABNER
			Skull.

The white man's brow furrows.  Then he can't help himself and
bursts out laughing.  He pokes fun at ABNER in German.  He finds
the kid a wonderful riot.  The laughter is contagious.  Soon the
whole place is filled with uproarious, gut-wrenching laughter.

ABNER sneers -- he doesn't like to be laughed at.  He won't stand
for it!

					ABNER
				 (barking)
			Shut up!




At once the laughter stops.  The expression "you could hear a pin
drop" comes to mind.  

SHARPLY CUT TO:  


ABNER as he's thrown out of the tavern and lands on the street out
front!

ABNER winces as he rolls over onto his back.  His pack lands
beside him with a clunk.

					ABNER
			Dirty -- rotten -- scoundrels.

At which point a pair of shiny shoes STEP IN.  ABNER sees them. 
He looks up slowly --

VLADIMIROV'S SPY looks down at ABNER with a face of stone.  He
says one word:

					SPY
			Skull.

										CUT TO:


INT. INDY'S LIVING ROOM - MORNING

INDY and MARION look like they've been up all night (they have). 
MARION is a nervous wreck.  She sits on the couch with the phone
on her lap, hoping, praying for a phone call.

INDY exhales heavily and rises from the sofa chair.  He goes to
the fireplace where he leans on the mantle.  

INDY looks at a framed photo of his father.    

					INDY
				 (small voice)
			Like father ... like son.

INDY steps away from the mantle.  We linger here for a moment. 
Just long enough to notice a framed PHOTO of INDY in a military
dress uniform.  INDY in the photo is about the same age as INDY
now.	 

There's a KNOCK at the front door.  MARION springs up off the
couch.
  
					MARION
			Abner!


INT. FRONT DOOR

MARION throws it open and reveals 2 OFFICIAL LOOKING MEN. 
			




					OFFICIAL MAN #1 
				 (Russian accent)
			Good morning.

					MARION
			What's so good about it!

MARION rudely walks away.  INDY takes it --

					INDY
			Can I help you gentlemen?

					OFFICIAL MAN #1
			Doctor Jones, my name is Stal Andropov
			and this is my countryman, Boris
			Kerensky.  We are with the Soviet Secret
			Police.  It is urgent that we speak with
			you.


EXT. THE SIDEWALK OUTSIDE INDY'S HOUSE - JUST AFTER

					KERENSKY
			Doctor, a Yugi Vladimirov came to see
			you Monday.  This is correct?

					INDY
			Yes.

					ANDROPOV
			He wanted to employ you.  Correct as
			well?

					INDY
			Yes.

					ANDROPOV
			Doctor, what I am about to disclose must
			never be repeated.  Not to anyone. 
			Especially not to your own government. 
			If you choose to break this confidence,
			the Soviet Union will deny everything. 
			Including our meeting today.  Is this
			understood?

					INDY
			Yes.  Go on.

					KERENSKY
			Yugi Vladimirov is under investigation.

					ANDROPOV
			Are you familiar with the "Sons of
			Darkness," Doctor?

					INDY
			I've heard of them.




					ANDROPOV
			They are a very influential society. 
			Sects throughout the world.

					KERENSKY
			The number of members would startle you.

					ANDROPOV
			We suspect Vladimirov is a sect leader. 
			Evidence gathered over the past year has
			convinced the Kremlin that he is an
			enemy of the State.
	 
					INDY
			So arrest him.

					ANDROPOV
			Not so simple, Doctor.  Vladimirov has
			strong ties with the heads of
			government.  The state cannot take
			action until a case is fully prepared.

					KERENSKY
			And this takes time, Doctor.

					INDY
			Why are you telling me all this?  

					ANDROPOV
			We feel it is necessary to inform you
			completely.

					KERENSKY
			You see, Doctor, we seek your help.

					INDY
				 (grumbling)			
			Everybody wants my help.  

					KERENSKY
			Vladimirov intrusted you with some
			informa --

					INDY
			Wait a minute -- what makes you think
			I'm interested?  He's your problem.  Not
			mine.  I'm only interested in finding my
			son.  

					KERENSKY
			Yes ... your son.  

Pause.

					ANDROPOV
			Doctor, Vladimirov has your son.






INT. INDY'S HOUSE

INDY snatches up the phone handset.  He's in the middle of
dialling when Andropov yanks the handset away.

					ANDROPOV
			Sorry, Doctor.

					INDY
			Get out of my house!  

					KERENSKY
				 (intense)
			Doctor, we are trying to avert an
			international crisis.

					INDY
			What crisis?

					ANDROPOV
			By the end of World War Two, the Soviet
			Union was a strong ally --

					INDY
			I don't need a history lesson!

					KERENSKY
			But the past three years have seen a
			change.  We are in the midst of a Cold
			War, Doctor.  Your country supplies
			economic and military aide to Turkey. 
			If your government were to discover
			Soviet troop movement on Turkish soil,
			they would declare it an act of
			aggression.

					ANDROPOV
			Meaning: we must get to Vladimirov
			without attracting attention to
			ourselves. 

					KERENSKY
			Doctor, the homes have only just been
			rebuilt.  The world cannot afford
			another war.

					INDY
			What about my son?!  Is he in any
			danger?

The men exchange solemn glances.

					ANDROPOV
			Yes ... we believe so.

					KERENSKY
			This will be difficult for you to 
			hear ... but we suspect Vladimirov is
			planning to use your son in some
			sacrificial rite.

INDY looks horrified.	 

					ANDROPOV
			The "Sons of Darkness" have a history of
			child sacrifices.  They're purity plays
			an important --  
  
					INDY
			I'm going after my son -- and you can't
			stop me!

					ANDROPOV		
				 (after a beat)
			We were hoping you would say this.

					KERENSKY
			But please remember, Doctor: you must be
			very discreet.	 

SHARPLY CUT TO:

INDY AS HE LAYS OUT HIS LEATHER JACKET, HOLSTERED REVOLVER, AND
HIS TRUSTY BULLWHIP!  HOW'S THAT FOR DISCREET?  

WE'RE IN INDY'S BEDROOM.  MARION is here.

					MARION
			You're not leaving me behind -- you hear
			me!  I'm going with you!

INDY takes out a suitcase from the closet.  He starts packing. 
Note that INDY tosses his BULLWHIP into the suitcase. 

					INDY
			Marion -- there's no time to 
			argue -- you're not going!

					MARION
			Like hell I'm not! 

She snatches up THE REVOLVER in both hands and shoves it in INDY'S
FACE!

					MARION
				 (not herself; crazed)
			HE'S GOT MY BABY!  

					INDY
				 (real calm)
			Marion ... put the gun down.

					MARION
			I WANT MY BABY!

The gun is shaking in her hands.

					INDY
			Alright ... you can go.




INT. INDY'S HOUSE - FRONT HALL - JUST AFTER

INDIANA JONES -- outfitted in his adventure threads -- hurries
down the stairs with his suitcase.  MARION is right behind him.

					MARION
			How are we gonna get there?

					INDY
			We're not waiting for that flight. 
			That's for sure.

					MARION
			Then how?

					INDY
			Trust me.

And they're out the door.

PUSH IN QUICKLY on the military photo of INDY on the fireplace
mantle, and we:

										CUT TO:


INT. U.S. AIRFORCE BASE - HANGER - DAY

MARION stands off to the side while INDY argues with a YOUNG
AIRFORCE PILOT.  

					INDY
			Whuddaya mean "there's nothing going
			out"?

					YOUNG PILOT
			Just that, Lieutenant.  There's not a
			single bird flying today.  

					INDY
			There's gotta be something -- !

					YOUNG PILOT
				 (shaking his head)
			I can't think of...
				 (he remembers)
			Wait...yeah...
				 (not sure)
			Is that today?  

					INDY
			Is what today?!

					YOUNG PILOT
			First round-the-world nonstop flight.  A
			Boeing B-50 Superfortress.

					INDY
			Where's it taking off from?


					YOUNG PILOT
			Fort Worth.

					INDY
			When?

					YOUNG PILOT
			Sometime today ... I'm not sure.

INDY takes the PILOT by the arm and rushes him toward an XR-4
HELICOPTER. 

					INDY
			You've just been drafted.

					YOUNG PILOT
			But, Lieutenant, we don't have
			clearance!

					INDY
			National emergency.  I'll be sure to
			mention to General MacArthur your co-
			operation here today.

He waves at MARION to follow.

					YOUNG PILOT
			But, sir -- she's brand new!  I got less
			than 50 hours flight time. 

					INDY
			50 hours more than I got.

					YOUNG PILOT
				 (shaking his head)
			This is crazy -- they're gonna give me a
			section 8 for this.

					INDY
			If it's any consolation, son, I've done
			crazier things.


EXT. U.S. AIRFORCE BASE - HELIPAD - JUST AFTER

The XR-4 lifts off, INDY and MARION on board.  

SHARPLY CUT TO:


THE FULL SCREEN MAP:

Images of the XR-4 in flight are SUPERIMPOSED over the adventure
map.  THE RAIDERS' MARCH jumps in big and loud as a solid red line
starts at BOSTON, crosses to CHICAGO, then zeroes in on FT. WORTH,
TEXAS.

										CUT TO:



INT. XR-4 IN FLIGHT - LATE IN THE DAY

INDY glances at his wristwatch --

					INDY
			We're cutting it close...

					MARION
				 (uneasy)
			Indy, what if we're too late?

INDY doesn't know what to say.

					YOUNG PILOT
				 (shouting)
			Look!

DOWN BELOW, THE B-50 SUPERFORTRESS IS TAXYING TOWARD THE RUNWAY.

					YOUNG PILOT
			We're too late! 

					INDY
			Get us down there!  Land in front of it
			if you have to!

					YOUNG PILOT
			Sir?!

					INDY
			Do it!  That's an order!


EXT. SKY OVER FORT WORTH AIRFORCE BASE

as the XR-4 starts its descent --


INT. SLOW TAXYING B-50 - THE COCKPIT

The XR-4 DROPS IN, just outside the windscreen.  The PILOT and CO-
PILOT gasp.  

The PILOT powers down on the throttle to avert a collision.


EXT. THE RUNWAY - JUST AFTER

INDY and MARION leap from the helicopter just as it sets down. 
The young PILOT shouts at INDY --

					YOUNG PILOT
			DON'T FORGET TO MENTION MY NAME TO THE
			GENERAL -- VINCENT H. McGOVERN.

					INDY
			WHO?

					PILOT
			GENERAL MACARTHUR!

					INDY
			YEAH, RIGHT...
				 (sincerely)
			THANK YOU.

					PILOT
			I CAN'T BELIEVE WE MADE IT...THE BIG GUY
			UPSTAIRS MUST LIKE YOU.

					INDY
				 (wryly)
			WE'LL SOON SEE JUST HOW MUCH.


EXT. IDLING B-50 - UNDER THE FUSELAGE

The PILOT, call him TEX, scurries down the cockpit emergency
ladder.  INDY -- MARION right behind him with the suitcase 
-- approaches. 

					TEX
			Sakes alive, mister -- do you have a
			screw loose or what?

					INDY
			I'm commandeering this plane.

TEX goes for his sidearm.  INDY beats him to the draw, whipping
out his trusty revolver.

					INDY
			I wouldn't do that!

					TEX
			You're in a shit-load of trouble,
			mister.  You know you're messin' with
			the United States Airforce?

					MARION
			My son's been kidnapped.

					TEX
			That's real terrible ma'am...but that's
			a job for the police.   

					INDY
			You're gonna fly us to Turkey.

					TEX
			Turkey -- the country -- I don't think
			so, mister.

					MARION
			Please...he's my little baby.

					TEX
			I feel for you, lady...I really do...but
			this bird here's taken.




In the distance, MILITARY POLICE JEEPS are fast approaching.

					INDY
			Your world record's gonna have to 
			wait -- get on board
				 (he cocks the revolver)
			Now!

					TEX
			You're goin' to prison for a very long
			time, mister.

					INDY
			Not as bad as where you're going if you
			don't get on that goddamn plane!

INDY fires off a shot into the ground!

SHARPLY CUT TO:


EXT. THE B-50 SUPERFORTRESS IN FLIGHT - SUNDOWN

The four propeller-driven behemoth is awash in warm sunlight from
the setting sun.  An eyeful.


INT. B-50'S CREW COMPARTMENT

TIGHT SHOT: INDY AND MARION, as she whispers --

					MARION
			You could have let these men stay
			behind.  
					
JUMP BACK WIDE: THERE ARE 13 CREWMEN ABOARD.  INDY has them all at
gun point.

					INDY
			Now you say something.
			
AT INDY'S FEET ARE A PILE OF .45 AUTOMATICS, 15 IN TOTAL.

					MARION
			I hope you got a plan?

					INDY
			Whudda you think: I'm making this up as
			I go along?

					MARION 
			Yes.

					INDY
			Don't worry...I still got some tricks up
			my sleeve.

					MARION
			Those Russian men, did they say where
			Abner is being held?

					INDY
			Dogubeyazit.  But we have to land in
			Istanbul.  It's the closest city with an
			airport...from there...

					MARION
			From there -- yeah...?

INDY shrugs.

					MARION
			You are making this up!		

INDY grabs a headset radio.

					MARION
			What are you doing?

					INDY
			One of my tricks.  
				 (into radio headset)   
			Captain, what's our E.T.A?

					TEX'S VOICE OVER HEADSET
			4 hours.

					INDY
			See if you can contact Air Traffic
			Control, Cairo.  Patch me through when
			you got them.   

					TEX'S VOICE OVER HEADSET
			Whatever you say, mister.

					INDY
			How we doing on fuel?

					TEX'S VOICE OVER HEADSET
			We're just gonna make it.

					INDY
				 (wryly)					 
			And you guys were planing a non-stop
			flight around the world...

					TEX'S VOICE OVER HEADSET
			Something new we been messin' around
			with: mid-air refuelling.

					INDY
				 (grumbling)
			Welcome to the Atomic Age.


EXT. ISTANBUL AIRPORT, TURKEY - NIGHT

The B-50 touches down!





INT. B-50'S CREW COMPARTMENT - JUST AFTER

HEAR the engines powering down.  INDY and MARION are now much more
at ease with the CREW.  A dramatic change in atmosphere. 
Friendlier.  Supportive.   

					CREWMAN #1 (CHARLIE)
			Hope you get your son back, ma'am.

MARION smiles weakly.

THE PLANE STOPS.  CREWMEN lower an emergency ladder to the ground.

					CREWMAN #2
			Good luck, sir.

					INDY
			Thank you...and sorry about this...I was
			desperate.

					CHARLIE
			We understand.

INDY and MARION start down the ladder.

					CREWMAN #3
				 (an after thought)
			You won't forget to mention our names to
			General MacArthur?

					INDY
			Count on it.


EXT. THE B-50

INDY and MARION run away from the plane --


EXT. ARRIVAL GATE - JUST AFTER

SALLAH, INDY'S good-natured friend and long time partner in
adventure, smiles gloriously.

					SALLAH
			My two most favourite people in the
			whole wide world.  Indy, Marion --

He hugs them tight.  Gives them both big kisses.

					SALLAH CONT.
			Good to see you, my friends.

					INDY
			We got trouble, Sallah.






					SALLAH
				 (turning serious)
			Yes, I received your telegram.  
				 (cheery again)
			But take heart, Indy.  We will get your
			cousin Abner back home safe.  

					MARION
				 (overlapping)
			"Cousin?"

SALLAH takes INDY'S SUITCASE.

					SALLAH CONT.
			Come.  I have checked us into the finest
			hotel Istanbul has to offer.  Our train
			to Erzurum leaves tomorrow morning. 
			Then from there -- 

					MARION
				 (suddenly)
			Sallah -- wait -- tomorrow morning!

					SALLAH
			Yes...is that a problem?

					MARION
			Sallah, Abner is my son.

					SALLAH
			What's this ... your son ... but how?

					MARION
			A bad man has taken my son, Sallah.

					INDY
			Our son.

					SALLAH
			My friends ... I am very sad ... I was
			not invited to the wedding...?  

					MARION
			Sallah, it's too long a story.  Right
			now we have to get to Dogubeyazit. 

					SALLAH
			Yes...but there is no train to
			Dogubeyazit.  We must first go to
			Erzurum.  Then a cab will take us to --

					MARION
			There's gotta be a faster way!

					INDY
			How about a bus, Sallah?

					SALLAH
			Very slow -- a good day's journey -- at
			least.

					MARION
			Nothing faster?

					SALLAH
			Marion, this is not New York City...
			Istanbul has limited transportation
			resources...Dogubeyazit is over 600
			hundred miles away.    
			
MARION exhales heavily.

					INDY
			Alright...we'll take the train.  

					MARION
			Indy, our son is out there with a
			madman! 

					INDY
			I know!  But what else can we do?

					SALLAH
			Indy is right, Marion.  The train is our
			best ho -- 

					MARION
			Goddammit!  We're standing around with
			our thumbs up our ass while my boy is
			out there getting himself into God knows
			what!


INT. VLADIMIROV'S HIDEOUT, DOGUBEYAZIT - THAT MOMENT

ABNER is digging into a big bowl of chocolate ice scream; his
breakfast.   

JUMP BACK: ABNER is eating alone at a makeshift table made up of
stacked wooden packing crates.  He looks incredibly small, dwarfed
as he is, by the room's massive, crumpling stone columns and
vaulted ceiling.  We gather from the dust, stone debris and
cobwebs, that this place was abandoned centuries ago and left for
ruin.


EXT. VLADIMIROV'S HIDEOUT - NEAR MOUNT ARARAT - THAT MOMENT

The hideout is an earthquake beset palace nested in a high valley
above the town of Dogubeyazit.  The 18th century structure has an
unobstructed view of Mt. Ararat.  Truly breathtaking.

A sedan drives up to the entrance, steering around toppled stone
pillars and rock debris.   


INT. HIDEOUT - BIG ROOM WHERE ABNER IS - JUST AFTER

VLADIMIROV enters.



					VLADIMIROV
			Ah, young Mr. Jones.  What a pleasant
			surprise.

					ABNER
			The last name's Ravenwood.

					VLADIMIROV
			But you are...
				 (gets the picture)
			Ah, yes, I see.

					ABNER
			See.  Whudda you see?

					VLADIMIROV
				 (taken slightly off balance)
			I'm not sure what you -- 

					ABNER
				 (getting riled)
			Whudda you see?!    

					VLADIMIROV
				 (genuinely apologetic)
			I meant nothing by it, sir.  Forgive me.

					ABNER
			Yeah...well...watch yourself.    

					VLADIMIROV
			Point taken.
			So...Mr. Ravenwood, you are a long way
			from home.

					ABNER
			I can take care of myself.

					VLADIMIROV
			Yes, you certainly can.  Came to Turkey
			all by yourself.  Very impressive.

					ABNER
			No big deal.  Your instruction were
			pretty detailed.

					VLADIMIROV
			No big deal -- why, Mr. Ravenwood, it is
			astounding.  You father must be very
			proud of you.  You are a bold and
			courageous young man.  

					ABNER
			You really think so -- about my father
			being proud of me, I mean?

					VLADIMIROV
			I would be if I were your father.

ABNER is all smiles.  He scoops up some ice cream into his mouth.

					VLADIMIROV CONT.
			So let me guess why you are here:
			Adventure.  Am I right?
			
Mouth full, ABNER nods.

					VLADIMIROV
			Come.  Let me show you something.

ABNER follows VLADIMIROV over to a ceiling-to-floor window covered
by a tattered and torn drape.  The big Russian pulls the drape
down.  It falls in a cloud of dust.  Abner waves at the dust
cloud, coughing.

					ABNER
			Hey -- !

At which point the dust clears and ABNER stares out wide eyed 
at --   

MT. ARARAT BATHED IN MOONLIGHT.				 
	
ABNER is taken aback by the mountain so close.  VLADIMIROV puts a
hand on ABNER'S shoulder.

					VLADIMIROV
			Magnificent ... isn't it?.  Two peaks. 
			16,950 feet and 13,000 feet
			respectively.  7 miles of snow and ice
			separate them.  It leaves one to wonder
			how Noah and the animals ever got off
			it.  With a little help from God, no
			doubt. 
					(he starts away)
			Come. I have something else to show you.

ABNER has to pull himself away from the window.

AT THE STACKED CRATES, VLADIMIROV takes out a photograph from a
leather briefcase which he brought with him.  

					VLADIMIROV
			The Armenians call Ararat "The Mother of
			the World".  An appropriate name,
			wouldn't you agree?

					ABNER
			Ah....yeah.  Sure.  It fits.

					VLADIMIROV
				 (chuckling)
			Come.  Look.

ABNER joins VLADIMIROV. 

					VLADIMIROV
			Take this.

He hands ABNER a magnifying glass.


					VLADIMIROV
			Look at the photo.  The area circled in
			red.

ABNER magnifies that area and sees the protrusion of something man
made.

					ABNER
			Wow!

					VLADIMIROV
			What do you suppose it is?

					ABNER
			Noah's Ark -- that's obvious.

VLADIMIROV smiles.

					ABNER
			Boy, would this picture be great for my
			display.

					VLADIMIROV
			What display is this?

					ABNER
			I'm doing a project on Noah's Ark.  My
			bible class is running a contest.  

					VLADIMIROV
				 (intrigued)
			Bible class...?

					ABNER CONT.
			Yeah...I got everything.  A model,
			newspaper articles -- the works.

					VLADIMIROV
			But there is one thing you do not have.

					ABNER
				 (haughtily)
			I made pretty sure.

					VLADIMIROV
			A piece of the ark.

					ABNER
				 (shaking with excitement)
			A -- a piece -- from the actual Ark?
			You have a piece?

					VLADIMIROV
			I am afraid not.  Though if I had I
			would gladly give it to you. 

ABNER sighs.

					VLADIMIROV CONT.
			But, Abner -- may I call you Abner?

					ABNER
			Sure -- it's my name.

					VLADIMIROV CONT.
			Abner, enough pieces to fill a class
			room may rest atop that mountain.  

Pause.

					ABNER
			You think -- when you go up there -- you
			can bring me down a piece.  I would 
			clinch the contest for sure.

					VLADIMIROV
			But why not bring a piece down yourself?

					ABNER
			Hey, don't tease me -- that's mean.

					VLADIMIROV
			But I am not teasing you, Abner.  The
			expedition team leaves in the morning. 
			How would you like to be part of the
			greatest adventure man has ever taken? 

					ABNER
			You gotta be kidding me?!  I'd give my
			right arm!  And that's the one I throw
			with!

					VLADIMIROV
				 (amused)
			Then you must be serious.    

ABNER turns sad all of a sudden.

					VLADIMIROV
			What is it?  

					ABNER
			My dad's gonna miss out.  I promised
			he'd be part of the adventure.

Pause.

					VLADIMIROV
			I have a suggestion: how about I contact
			your father and have him join us?  

					ABNER
			That'd be great!  Ah, but you heard him. 
			He doesn't wanna go.

					VLADIMIROV
			I am a very persuasive man, Abner. 
			Trust me.




EXT. ISTANBUL AIRPORT - THAT MOMENT (NIGHT)

INDY, MARION and SALLAH again.  INDY gets a brainstorm --

					INDY
			I got it!

INDY looks out toward the B-50 now silent on the apron.

INDY starts to walk fast toward the plane.  MARION has to almost
run to keep up.  SALLAH, too.

					INDY
			Sallah, I don't know if this is gonna
			work -- I need you to catch that train
			to Erzurum in the morning -- get to
			Dogubeyazit -- ask questions -- scourer
			the place -- Abner's there somewhere. 
			Go!

					SALLAH
			Yes, Indy -- God be with you, my friends

SALLAH runs off.

					MARION
			What are we gonna do?

					INDY
			You ever parachuted?

					MARION
			Parachuted?!  No!

					INDY
			They can't land that baby, but nothing
			says we can't jump.  C'mon!

At which point there is a SCREECH of tires!  INDY and MARION spin
around --

HERE COME THE U.S. MILITARY POLICE, RACING UP IN ARMY JEEPS.

THE JEEPS SURROUND INDY AND MARION AS THEY SKID TO HALT.  M.P.s
DRAW THEIR WEAPONS AS THE

					THE SERGEANT
				 (orders)
			Don't move!

INDY and MARION put up their hands slowly.  INDY spots TEX
standing at the side.  TEX gives INDY an icy salute.  Bastard!

Watching all of this from a distance is SALLAH.

					SALLAH
				 (dreadfully)
			Oh no...!



He watches helpless as INDY and MARION are restrained and man-
handled into an army jeep. 

									CUT TO:


INT. HIDEOUT - MAKESHIFT SLEEPING QUARTERS - NIGHT

ABNER gets into a cot and slips under the covers.  VLADIMIROV
tucks the boy in nice and cosy.

					VLADIMIROV
			We leave for the mountain at dawn.  Be
			sure to get plenty of sleep.

					ABNER
			Vladimirov?  

					VLADIMIROV
			Please, Yugi, we are friends.

					ABNER
			Yugi...you've been really nice to me.  I
			won't let you down.  

					VLADIMIROV
			I know you won't.


EXT. HIDEOUT (THE RUINED PALACE) - NIGHT

VLADIMIROV'S MEN are loading a TRANSPORT TRUCK with mountain
climbing gear. 

VLADIMIROV approaches a MAN.  The man's back is to us, but we can
see he is smoking a pipe.

					VLADIMIROV
			So...where were we, Doctor?

DR. BILL HUMPHREY, the pretentious ass, pulls his pipe from his
mouth with such pompous ease that it's enough to make one throw
up.

					BILL
			You were explaining that the anticipated
			storm came early yesterday; and that the
			weather should pose no problem for
			tomorrow's climb.

									CUT TO:


INT. U.S. ARMY JEEP - MOVING - THAT MOMENT

INDY and MARION are in the back.  M.P. DRIVER and PASSENGER up
front.

					INDY
			Listen -- we're not crazy!

					PASSENGER M.P.
			Yeah, yeah -- just save it for the head
			doctor.  

					MARION
			We're not crazy, dammit! -- you don't
			understand -- my boy's been kidnapped by
			the "Sons of Darkness" -- they're
			looking for Noah's Ark and when they
			find it they're gonna sacrifice my boy
			to some Godforsaken devil!

The two M.P.s turn their heads slowly around and look at MARION
like she's off her rocker.

					INDY
			Contact General MacArthur --

					DRIVER M.P.
			The General MacArthur?

					INDY
			Yes -- he'll vouch for me!

					DRIVER M.P.
				 (very sarcastic)
			Sure we'll contact him right away. 
			Maybe we can all play war together.

INDY and MARION growl.  It's pointless.

									CUT TO:


EXT. U.S. ARMY BASE, ISTANBUL - ESTABLISHING SHOT - NIGHT

Main gate.  Barracks.  The usual.				

					MARION'S VOICE    
				 (screaming)
			Goddamn you bastards!


INT. THE STOCKADE - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

The two M.P.s push INDY AND MARION into

A CELL

					MARION
			Sons-a-bitches!

She spits at them.  They make faces and funny noises, circling 
their index fingers around their temples. 

They slam the cell door shut -- CLANG!

					MARION
			Bastards!



					INDY
			You're not helping us, Marion!

					MARION
			I'm doing a hell of a lot more than you
			are!

					INDY
			What do you expect me to do, huh?  Take
			on the whole U.S. Army?!

					MARION
			You took on the whole Third 
			Reich -- what? -- Americans not good
			enough for you?!

					INDY
			Aaaaaa!

INDY waves her off curtly; he's heard enough.


EXT. ARMY BASE - THE MAIN GATE - NIGHT

CAMERA FINDS a sedan parked down the street from the main gate.

Seated behind the wheel is SALLAH; he's watching the main gate. 

SALLAH glances at his WRISTWATCH: 2:30 in the A.M.

MATCH DISSOLVE TO:

SALLAH'S WRISTWATCH: 4:25 in the A.M.

SALLAH exhales heavily.  

					SALLAH
				 (talking to himself)
			Perhaps if I had a weapon...?

At which point he sees INDY'S suitcase on the passenger seat.

SALLAH opens the suitcase and only finds INDY'S BULLWHIP.

At which point there is the SQUEAL OF TRUCK BRAKES --

SALLAH SEES A CONVOY OF U.S. ARMY TRUCKS STOPPED AT THE FRONT
GATE.

CUT: THE MAIN GATE SENTRY is waving the lead truck through.

THE CONVOY ENTERS THE BASE.  

AN INCONGRUOUS SHOT SHOWS US THE TARP COVERED VEHICLE BEING TOWED
BEHIND THE LAST TRUCK.







EXT. ARMY BASE - TRUCK YARD - JUST AFTER

The convoy is parked.  SOLDIERS walk away from the trucks,
CHATTING and LAUGHING.


INT. UNDER THE TARP

SALLAH is hidden here.  He listens to the soldiers; their VOICES
fade.

SALLAH is about to slip out from under the tarp when he notices
what's under here with him --

A TOWED HOWITZER!


EXT. THE TRUCK WITH TOWED HOWITZER - JUST AFTER

SALLAH climbs up onto the rear bumper of the truck.  He pushes the
canvas curtain aside and grins big from ear to ear.

STACKED INSIDE THE TRUCK IS THE HOWITZER AMMUNITION!


EXT. THE BASE - JUST AFTER - ON A SIGN POST

with a number of signs posted.  But the one we see reads:
STOCKADE.  A painted arrow points the way.


INT. STOCKADE - INDY'S AND MARION'S CELL - JUST AFTER

MARION is pacing.  INDY sits on the bunk, face in his hands.

Suddenly --

					SALLAH'S VOICE
				 (hushed)
			Indy!  Marion!

INDY springs up and goes to the barred window.

					INDY
				 (hushed)
			Sallah!

					SALLAH'S VOICE
			Indy!  Oh, what a pleasure it is to 
			hear --

					INDY
			Get us the hell out of here!

					SALLAH'S VOICE
			Is there a bunk in there?

					INDY
				 (confused)
			A bunk?  What?  Sallah!!

					SALLAH'S VOICE
			You and Marion stay to the right and
			cover yourselves.

					MARION
			Cover ourselves?

INDY gets the picture.  He pulls off the bunk's mattress.

					INDY
			Behind it!  C'mon!


EXT. THE STOCKADE BUILDING - JUST AFTER

SALLAH has the truck and towed howitzer parked out here. 

SALLAH is manning the howitzer.  He cranks the METAL WHEEL which
turns and adjusts the howitzer's cannon.  He points the barrel at
the exterior wall of INDY'S and MARION'S cell.

SALLAH cracks open the cannon breach and LOADS a heavy shell.

SALLAH plugs his ears and stomps on the fire control lever with
his foot -- BOOM!

SALLAH is thrown from the recoiling howitzer!  

A HUGH HOLE IS BLASTED OPEN IN THE WALL!

INSIDE THE CELL -- CHUNKS OF ROCK DEBRIS BEAT ON THE MATTRESS INDY
AND MARION HAVE TAKEN COVER BEHIND!  
			 
INSIDE THE BARRACKS -- SOLDIERS ARE JARRED AWAKE BY THE EXPLOSION!


EXT. THE HUGE HOLE

as INDY and MARION run outside.

					INDY
			Sallah!!

SALLAH pops up, unhurt.

					SALLAH
			The truck!

INDY, MARION and SALLAH rush to the 

TRUCK

and climb inside.

					SALLAH
				 (proudly)
			I hot-wired it.

					INDY
			Your one of a kind, Sallah!

INDY shifts gears and stomps on the gas.


EXT. THE TRUCK

as it shudders and races away.


EXT. THE MAIN GATE - JUST AFTER

The truck smashes through the wooden barrier arm!

The truck turns wildly, almost tipping over.

HERE COME TWO M.P. JEEPS IN PURSUIT!  

										CUT TO:


EXT./INT. CHASE THROUGH THE STREETS OF ISTANBUL - OUR HEROS IN THE
FLEEING TRUCK - NIGHT

INDY snaps a look at the side mirror -- ARMY JEEPS IN HOT PURSUIT! 
CLOSING IN FAST!

					MARION
			Can't this thing go any faster?!

					INDY
			We're too heavy!

					SALLAH
			The shells and howitzer are weighing us
			down!

					INDY
			Shells!

					SALLAH
			Yes -- back there!

INDY throws a look back -- STACKED AMMUNITION!  THE LIVE SHELLS
RATTLE AGAINST EACH OTHER.

INDY'S REACTION -- PRICELESS. 

GUN FIRE NOW!

THE PURSING JEEPS

THE M.P.s ARE FIRING AT THE TRUCK!

INDY sneers.

A BULLET RICOCHETS OFF THE SIDE MIRROR!

					INDY
			Those idiots hit a shell and we'll be
			the first men to the moon!



Moon ... that gives INDY an idea.

					INDY
			Sallah, take the wheel!


IN THE TRUCK HOLD

INDY works his way toward the rear.  HE'S FORCED TO DUCK DOWN FROM
A RICOCHETING BULLET!  
 
INDY looks at the SHELLS -- right in his face -- his heart almost
stops.

IN THE CAB

SALLAH cranks the wheel.

THE TRUCK CUTS A CORNER SHARPLY --

INDY IS THROWN TO THE SIDE -- LIVE SHELLS FALL WITH HIM!

					INDY
			SALLAH!!

					SALLAH
			Sorry, Indy!

CUT TO: INDY as he leaps from the rear of the moving truck to the
towed howitzer.  INDY has a live shell under each arm.

INDY quickly mans the howitzer.  He CRANKS THE WHEEL and aims the
barrel down at the rushing road.

INDY cracks open the breach and SLAMS home a shell.

THE TWO PURSUING ARMY JEEPS

are racing up toward the rear of the truck.  An M.P. is taking 
aim over the windshield -- 

INDY pops up and fires the howitzer -- BOOM!

THE RECOIL SLAMS THE TOWED HOWITZER UP AGAINST THE BACK OF THE
TRUCK.  INDY IS ALMOST THROWN TO THE ROAD!

SALLAH AND MARION ROCK WITH THE BUMPED TRUCK!

THE FIRED SHELL BLASTS A CRATER INTO THE ROAD -- AND 
CRUNCH -- ONE OF THE PURSING JEEPS FALLS INTO IT AT HIGH SPEED!    
  
THE M.P.s, BANGED UP, ARE ALL RIGHT. 

INDY LOADS ANOTHER SHELL --

INDY PREPARES TO FIRE AGAIN --

AT WHICH POINT SALLAH TURNS THE TRUCK SHARPLY DOWN ANOTHER
STREET --


THE HOWITZER TILTS UP ONTO ONE WHEEL -- AND INDY PRESSES THE FIRE
CONTROL LEVER INADVERTENTLY!

BOOM!  THE FIRED SHELL TAKES OUT A PARKED CAR!   

THE HOWITZER SLAMS BACK DOWN -- AND INDY IS ALMOST THROWN AGAIN!

					INDY
			SALLAH!!!

					SALLAH
				 (shouting)
			SORRY, INDY!

INDY is forced to duck as a bullet strikes the howitzer!

DOWN HERE, INDY sees where the howitzer is hitched to the 
truck -- an idea comes to him.

THE LONE PURSUING JEEP

is not far behind the truck.  The M.P. PASSENGER is reaching for
the radio --

WHEN INDY, TUGGING AND PULLING AT THE HITCH RELEASE ARM, GETS IT
FINALLY!

INDY JUMPS FROM THE HOWITZER JUST AS IT DROPS AWAY FROM THE
TRUCK --

THE M.P.s CRY OUT --

AND THE JEEP SWERVES TO MISS THE RUNAWAY HOWITZER.  THE JEEP JUMPS
THE CURB AND SMASHES INTO A TREE!  

The M.P.s, banged up, are okay.  They watch the TRUCK whip around
a corner and disappear from their sights.

The M.P. who reached for the radio looks at the frayed, pulled out
cord attached to the handset in his hand.  He shrugs at his
partner.   

									CUT TO:


EXT. ISTANBUL AIRPORT - NIGHT

INDY, MARION AND SALLAH creep up and get out of sight behind a
REFUELLING TRUCK.  

					INDY
			It's still here.

HE MEANS THE B-50 SUPERFORTRESS.

					INDY CONT.
			Like before.




					SALLAH
			Yes, Indy.  
					(remembering)
			Oh --

SALLAH pulls out from within his shirt INDY'S BULLWHIP.

					SALLAH CONT.
			You might need this, my friend.  

INDY takes his whip and latches it to his belt.

					SALLAH CONT.
			God be more with you this time.


EXT. THE PARKED B-50 - UNDER THE FUSELAGE - JUST AFTER 

A YOUNG SENTRY is standing guard at the plane.

MARION approaches the SENTRY with a warm smile.  The SENTRY snaps
down his rifle and points it at MARION.

					YOUNG SENTRY
			Halt!

					MARION
			Hey, hey -- take it easy.  

					YOUNG SENTRY
			This is a restricted area, ma'am. 
			You'll have to leave.  

					MARION
			But what about cuddles?

					YOUNG SENTRY
			Cuddles, ma'am?

					MARION
			My wittle doggie -- you have to help me
			find Cuddles.

					YOUNG SENTRY
			I didn't see any dog, ma'am...?

					MARION
				 (pointing)
			There he is!

The SENTRY turns around -- WHACK!  INDY smacks the SENTRY with a
plank of wood.							

INDY and MARION race up the steps and into the plane.

										CUT TO:






EXT. ISTANBUL AIRPORT - DAWN

The B-50'S four big propellers start to spin one after the other.


INT. B-50 COCKPIT

TEX and the CO-PILOT are finishing up their preflight checks.
    
					TEX
			Takes forever to do anything in this god
			forsaken country.

					CO-PILOT
			I'm just glad to be going home.
				 

INT. B-50'S STORAGE COMPARTMENT

INDY and MARION are hiding in here.

					INDY
			We'll make our move after we're in the
			air.

					MARION
			Indy, what if we're too late?

					INDY
			We'll get Abner back.  I promise.

INDY embraces MARION.  

									CUT TO:


INT. VLADIMIROV'S HIDEOUT - MAKESHIFT SLEEPING QUARTERS - DAWN

Abner is sound asleep.  THE CAMERA FINDS VLADIMIROV; he is
watching Abner sleep.  Creepy.  

VLADIMIROV whispers one word in that CRYPTIC language again.

									CUT TO:


EXT. THE B-50 IN FLIGHT - SUN UP

The big B-50 is flying west, away from the rising sun.


INT. B-50'S CREW COMPARTMENT

The CREW are at their stations.

INDY steps out of hiding.  The crew all see him at once.

INDY puts a finger to his mouth -- Sshh!



					CHARLIE
				 (hushed)
			Sir, what are you doing back here?

					CREWMAN #2
			We saw you get taken away.

					INDY
			Charlie, we have to get this plane
			turned around.  I need your help.


INT. THE COCKPIT - JUST AFTER

INDY barges in with Charlie -- a .45 pointed at the kid's head! 

					INDY
			Gentlemen --

					TEX
			You!  How the hell --

					INDY
			Shut up or I'll put a bullet through
			this kid's head!

					CHARLIE
			Listen to him, Captain.  The guy's a
			whack-o!

					INDY
			Turn the plane around and head east.


EXT. VLADIMIROV'S HIDEOUT - SUN UP

VLADIMIROV, DR. BILL HUMPHREY, and ABNER walk to the TRUCK idling
nearby.  VLADIMIROV'S COMRADES are all present: 4 in total.

					BILL
				 (low to Vladimirov)
			You think it's wise to bring the child?

					VLADIMIROV
			Abner is our good luck charm, Doctor.

					BILL
			Sir, the climb is going to be very
			demanding ... not to mention dangerous.  
			
					VLADIMIROV
			All the more reason to have a good luck
			charm, Doctor.  

					BILL
			He's your responsibility.

					VLADIMIROV
			I'd have it no other way.


BILL steps away in a huff.  A comrade, RYKOV, whispers to his
Captain:

					RYKOV 
			Comrade Captain, I was unable to contact
			Doctor Jones.  The university said he
			left the country on important business.

					VLADIMIROV 
				 (grinning)
			Doctor Jones is no doubt looking for his
			son as we speak.  I would have preferred
			the services of the good Doctor...but we
			must make do.

					RYKOV 
				 (concerned)
			Comrade, I agree with Dr. Humphrey.  The
			child will slow us down.

					VLADIMIROV 
			The child is our salvation, comrade.   

RYKOV frowns.

					VLADIMIROV
			You will soon understand.  We could not
			have been more fortunate.

										CUT TO:


EXT. APPROACH TO THE MOUNTAIN - MORNING

The truck bounces along a rocky dirt road, headed for Mount Ararat
rising high in the background.


INT. TRUCK - MOVING

ABNER is really excited.  

VLADIMIROV is enjoying the boy's enthusiasm.


EXT. ROCKY FOOTHILL ROAD - SOON AFTER

The truck is following a winding road which cuts through higher,
more rugged terrain.  Sheer bluffs, a story or more high, and
strangely eroded rock formations make up the surrounding
landscape.


INT. TRUCK

Comrade RYKOV is at the wheel, frowning at something up ahead on
the road.





EXT. THE ROAD

We LOOK THROUGH the legs of a horse at the truck approaching.  We
CRANE UP alongside the horse to show the RIDER in profile.


INT. TRUCK

The strange horseman has everyone's attention.

					VLADIMIROV
			The horn.

RYKOV honks the horn.  But the rider remains where he is, blocking
the road.

					ABNER
			Who is that?


EXT. THE ROAD

The horseman raises his hand into the air. 


INT. THE TRUCK

Everyone is puzzled.
			
					BILL			 
			What's he doing?


EXT. CLOSE ON THE HORSEMAN

as his hand snaps down -- a signal!  

At which point HORSEMEN, numbering a dozen, close in from all
flanks.


INT. THE TRUCK

VLADIMIROV sneers.  He raps on the cab wall, yelling to his men in
the hold --

					VLADIMIROV (*subtitled*)
			Ambush!


EXT. THE TRUCK

as the flapped sides are rolled up and reveal a HEAVY MACHINE GUN
on a tripod.   The GUNNER opens fire!

.50 calibre slugs slam into the charging brigade!  Horsemen fall,
hitting the dirt hard!





INT. THE TRUCK

RYKOV jumps out, ready to do battle.  VLADIMIROV gets his door 
open --

					VLADIMIROV
			Remain here!  Stay low!

BILL and ABNER don't argue with him.


EXT. THE TRUCK

A HORSEMAN gallops by, his sword raised gallantly!  VLADIMIROV
draws his sidearm quickly and takes out the rider with one shot!

The heavy machine gun cuts the ambusher's numbers in half.

RYKOV and VLADIMIROV charge the fallen horsemen who stagger to
their feet.


INT. THE TRUCK

ABNER gets to the floor, scared.   BILL doesn't look so brave
either.  Suddenly -- THUD!  Someone just landed on the roof!


EXT. THE TRUCK

A HORSEMAN has leaped onto the roof from a ridge above and is
now --


INT. THE TRUCK

jumping onto the hood.  BILL yelps!  The HORSEMAN peers in through
the windscreen -- then smashes his sword through the glass!   BILL
jerks aside!  The tip of the sword punctures the cab wall very
close to BILL'S head!

					ABNER
			Gun!  Don'tcha gotta gun?

					BILL
			No!

But that's not all together true.   BILL just remembered
something.  He scrambles for his DUFFLE BAG.  From it he pulls out
a SMALL BOX --

The HORSEMAN on the hood thrusts his sword forward; he's trying it
a second time!   BILL ducks down.  Again the tip of the sword
stabs the back wall!  

BILL POPS UP -- something in his hand -- WHOOSH!  A sizzling ball
of light erupts from the object in BILL'S hand -- IT'S A FLARE
GUN!  The projectile slams into the HORSEMAN and knocks him back
off the hood of the truck!


EXT. THE TRUCK

The fallen HORSEMAN is wounded, but not dead.  He staggers to his
feet.  VLADIMIROV charges at him!  The big Russian knocks the
HORSEMAN to the ground again!  VLADIMIROV is seething mad.  His
eyes glow RED -- very subtle -- as he unloads three shots into the
HORSEMAN at point blank range!

Now a yell from RYKOV warns VLADIMIROV to watch out!  The big
Russian spins around and unloads two slugs into a CHARGING
HORSEMAN!   

RYKOV is under attack himself, but he doesn't see in time.  The
attacker's sword runs him through.  A full foot of blood smeared
steel pops out of RYKOV'S chest -- ghastly!  

The GUNNER whips the heavy machine gun around and riddles the last
horseman with bullets.    

VLADIMIROV, his chest heaving, is ready for more.  But it's all
over.  

THE DOZEN HORSEMEN ARE DEAD.


EXT. AMBUSH SCENE - JUST AFTER

COMRADE 2 is preparing to drag RYKOV'S body to the truck.  

					VLADIMIROV 
			Leave him.

					COMRADE 2 
			But Comrade Captain --

					VLADIMIROV 
			Leave him!  I don't want the boy
			frightened!  Go!  Get the truck started. 
			Go!  Damn you!


INT. THE TRUCK

VLADIMIROV climbs in.  

					BILL
			Getting us killed was not part of the
			agreement, sir!  

					VLADIMIROV
			I'm not responsible, Doctor!  If bandits
			wish to attack us, there is nothing I
			can do but protect myself!

					ABNER
			Robbers?  Those guys were robbers?

					VLADIMIROV
			Yes.  Bad men, Abner.


					ABNER
			I'm glad you got'em, Yugi.  Bandits
			tried to rob me the other day.  But I
			got away.

					VLADIMIROV
			Good.  Very good.  You will make a fine
			solider someday.

ABNER likes the thought of that.  BILL is not altogether 
convinced.

					BILL
			Bandits ... I find that difficult to
			believe, sir.

					VLADIMIROV
			Highway robbers, Doctor.  Who else would
			they be?

					BILL
			Just before they attacked I heard one
			shout in Hebrew: "The Sons of Light will
			triumph!"

					VLADIMIROV
				 (evenly)
			Zealots, Doctors.  Zealots.


EXT. THE TRUCK

as it drives off.  

We remain on the battle field.  Bodies of the horsemen are
sprawled out in the dirt, twisted, open wounds turning the sand
red.  The wind picks up.  Strong.  Sand begins to swirl and whip
in the air.  

In a matter of seconds the wind has kick up a wall of sand too
dense for the eye to penetrate.  The screen is completely
obscured.  Then, as quick as the wind came, it disperses.  The
sand wall dissipates and settles.  

The bodies of the horsemen no longer lie defeated on the ground;
nor do they stand at attention, resurrected by powers to great to
fathom.  Just the simplest of miracles -- THEY HAVE VANISHED.


INT. B-50 COCKPIT

INDY is still holding CHARLIE at gun point.

					INDY
			Radio air traffic control, Moscow.

					TEX
			I knew it -- you're a commie traitor!



					INDY
			Do it! 
				 (to CO-PILOT)
			You.  Go through your air maps. 
			Calculate a position closet to the town
			of Dogubeyazit.

					TEX
			We can't land this thing there --
			there's no runaway!

					INDY
			Who said anything about landing!


EXT. BASE OF MOUNT ARARAT - FOOTHILLS - DAY
					 
The truck is already unloaded.  Mountain climbing gear is piled up
on the ground.  Note the backpacks: they remind us of parachute
bundles.

VLADIMIROV, his 3 comrades, BILL, and ABNER, are suited up, or in
the process of doing so, for the climb ahead.  

ABNER'S climbing suit is a makeshift one.  ABNER is slipping on a
pair of hiking boots which he brought with him in his backpack.  

BILL pulls VLADIMIROV to the side, out of ear-shot --

					BILL
			Vladimirov, be reasonable.  We've
			already been ambushed.  And in a couple
			of hours we will be traversing very
			dangerous terrain.  He is only a boy. 

					VLADIMIROV
			Do not worry yourself, Doctor.  I will
			see that the boy remains safe.  
				 (turning to Abner; loud)
			Abner is far to important to leave
			behind.  
 
BILL sighs heavily.  ABNER sticks out his tongue at BILL.

					VLADIMIROV
				 (chuckling)
			Today we climb to the lower plateau.  An
			abandoned village there should provide
			adequate shelter for the night. 

					BILL
			The village was destroyed by an
			earthquake and avalanche in 1840. 

					VLADIMIROV
			You've done your homework, Doctor. 

					BILL
			I come prepared, sir.


Exchanging goofy looks with ABNER:

					VLADIMIROV 
			Lucky for us.  However, a few structures
			should still remain intact.
	
					COMRADE 1
			We are ready, sir.

					VLADIMIROV
			Excellent.

No one moves.  Least of all BILL.

					VLADIMIROV
			Doctor, you are the self proclaimed
			mountaineer of mountaineers, are you
			not?  Please, lead the way.

 BILL hops to it.

					BILL				 
			Tally Ho!

					ABNER
			Hold it!  What about my dad?

					VLADIMIROV
			It is getting late, Comrade.  We must
			go.

					ABNER
			But my dad?  He should be here?

Kneeling to the boy --

					VLADIMIROV
				 (dramatically)
			Just think how proud he will be when you
			bring him a piece of the Ark.

ABNER beams.


INT. B-50 COCKPIT - THAT MOMENT

INDY, enraged, whips the radio headset aside.

					MARION
			What -- what's wrong?!

					INDY
			Andropov refuses to get involved!  He
			said Vladimirov and his men left for the
			mountain at dawn.

					MARION
			Abner?



					INDY
			Abner's with them.

					MARION
			Oh god.

					INDY
				 (barking at the CO-PILOT)
			You!  Forget about the town -- calculate
			a drop zone closet to mount Ararat.

At which point there is a SPUTTERING NOISE --

OUTSIDE, THE FOUR PROPELLER DRIVEN ENGINES ARE DYING, ONE AFTER
THE OTHER.

BACK INSIDE --

					INDY
			What's wrong?!

					TEX
			I don't know -- all the engines are
			shutting down.  Instrument readouts are
			failing!

					INDY
			Fuel? -- what?!  C'mon!!

					TEX
			I don't know!

					INDY
				 (wryly)
			So much for the man upstairs liking me.
				 
THE LAST ENGINE DIES.  THE BIG PLANE STARTS TO NOSE DIVE.  TEX
FIGHTS TO GET THE NOSE UP.

					TEX
			WE'RE GOING DOWN!


EXT. SERENE PASTURE LANDS - JUST AFTER

A TURKISH FARMER is tending to his crops.

What's that?  HERE IT IS -- THE B-50 SHOOTS BY OVERHEAD.  THE
PLANE'S FEROCIOUS WIND DRAG BLOWS THE FARMER RIGHT OFF HIS FEET!

HERE WE GO: THE SUPERFORTRESS BELLY FLOPS WITH A CRUNCH.  THE
PLANE STAYS INTACT AND SLIDES LIKE A GIANT'S BOBSLED ON THE EVEN
PASTURE LAND --

SUDDENLY THE NOSE STARTS TO DIG IN AND THEN -- OH MY GOD -- THE
PLANE BEGINS TO CARTWHEEL.  THE AIRCRAFT DISINTEGRATES INTO A
MILLION PIECES AND EXPLODES!  

BUT ... WHAT ABOUT OUR HEROS?


EXT. THE OTTOMAN BRIDGE - THAT MOMENT

ABNER'S taxicab crossed this bridge yesterday.  

					MARION'S VOICE
				 (screaming)
			INDY-Y-Y-Y!

AT WHICH POINT INDY AND MARION DROP IN FROM THE SKY -- FLOAT IN
RATHER -- BOTH OF THEM STRAPPED INTO PARACHUTE HARNESSES. 

INDY lands first -- a perfect two-point touch down.  MARION is
second to land -- OOOFF!  Not so perfect.

TOUCHING DOWN ALL AROUND NOW ARE THE 13 MEMBER FLIGHT CREW, TEX
AND THE CO-PILOT!


EXT. THE BRIDGE - JUST AFTER

Everybody starts to gather on the bridge.  TEX pushes through his
men and stomps up to INDY -- WHACK!  He punches INDY in the face. 
INDY'S knees buckle. 

					TEX
			 You commie sonofabitch!

TEX raises his fist again.  MARION intercedes --

					MARION
			Please!  Please!  Stop -- my boy is in
			danger!  

					CHARLIE
			It's true, sir.

					TEX
			You're gonna back them up after he put a
			gun to your head?!

					CHARLIE
			It was just a trick...to get you to co-
			operate.  Sorry.

					TEX
			Then all this time your wife here's been
			telling the truth?

INDY and MARION nod.

					TEX
			Well I'll be a monkey's uncle.

INDY looks at Mount Ararat far off on the horizon.

					INDY
			We gotta get to that mountain!




					MARION
			How -- we're in the middle of nowhere!

At which point there is a CHUG-CHUG NOISE.

ALL HEADS TURN TO SEE A JUNK-BOX TAXICAB COMING DOWN THE DIRT ROAD
TOWARD THE BRIDGE.    
			
CUT TO: INDY as he flags down the taxicab.

BEHIND THE WHEEL is our sour-toothed CABBY, jaws still swollen and
his head wrapped in the grimy handkerchief. 

					INDY
			Take us to the mountain!

					CABBY
				 (pointing behind him)
			Mmmmm.

He has TOURISTS in the backseat.

CUT: Now the TOURISTS are out of the cab and on their butts in the
dirt.  They watch stunned as the taxicab putt-putts away!


INT. THE TAXICAB - MOVING

We see, through the back windshield, the CREWMEN helping the
tossed TOURISTS to their feet.

INDY is brandishing a .45 at the CABBY.

					INDY
			Faster!

					CABBY
				 (sweating bullets)
			Mmmmmmmm!


EXT. MOUNT ARARAT - GRASSY PLATEAU - DAY

The first leg is underway.  A breathtaking HIGH ANGLE SHOT finds
VLADIMIROV'S team making tracks up the gradually sloped plateau.  


EXT. ROCKY FOOTHILL ROAD - DAY

The taxicab races along at an incredible 20 miles an hour!


INT. CAB

INDY fishes out a map from his pocket.  It looks familiar.  It's
from the plane.  It's a topographic map of Mount Ararat and the
surrounding foothills.





Indicating map --

					INDY
			The Ark's been pin-pointed on this peak,
			here, little Ararat.  They'll probably
			come in from the north, around Great
			Ararat.  There's a seven mile stretch
			between the peaks.  Then it's a 5,000
			foot climb once they reach little
			Ararat.  

					MARION
			"Once"?  We can't let them get that far!

					INDY
			It's probably to late to stop them.


EXT. MOUNT ARARAT - GRASSY PLATEAU - DAY

The team starts to change directions.  BILL is studying a map on
the climb, using his compass to navigate.

					VLADIMIROV
			Are we making good time, Doctor?

					BILL
			We could be doing better.

BILL glances back at ABNER disdainfully.  ABNER makes a face at
BILL.  VLADIMIROV chuckles.
		 
					VLADIMIROV
			How long until we reach the village?

					BILL
			5 hours.  Maybe 6

VLADIMIROV grins at something BILL has hanging from his belt.

					VLADIMIROV
			Doctor, I see you are prepared for
			another close encounter.

BILL frowns at him.
			
					VLADIMIROV CONT.
			Your flare gun.

					BILL
			Yes, I've decided to keep it at my side. 
			As you saw it came in very handy.

					VLADIMIROV
			A pistol would be much more practical,
			Doctor.  Would it not?

					BILL
			I've never been a advocate of firearms,
			sir.  Nasty things if you ask me.

					VLADIMIROV
			Ah, yes, Doctor, but they too can be
			very handy.


EXT. ROCKY FOOTHILL ROAD - NEAR SUNDOWN

This is a familiar looking area.  Yes, that's right, the ambush 
occurred here just hours ago.  

Here comes the taxicab, sputtering and lurching -- it dies!  Steam
spews from its rad!

INDY and MARION get out.  The cabby kicks the tire.

					INDY
			Dammit!  

					MARION
			What now?

					INDY
			The mountain's just a short distance.
				 (pulling Marion)
			C'mon!


EXT. A LITTLE WAYS UP THE FOOTHILL ROAD - JUST AFTER 

INDY and MARION are running along when INDY spots the bloody body
of COMRADE RYKOV.  

					INDY
			Hold it!

INDY runs over to the dead man.  MARION steps in a second later.

					MARION
			Who is that?  What are you doing?

INDY is rummaging through the man's pockets.

INDY pulls out a map.  He unfolds it and looks it over.

					INDY
			Yes!  It's their route.  We know exactly
			where they're starting and where they're
			going.

INDY reaches down to grab Rykov's automatic rifle, but jumps back.

					INDY
			Watch it!  Scorpion!

The creepy thing crawls up onto Rykov's chest.  MARION yelps.

					INDY
			Easy.  Don't panic.  He'd make you sick,
			but the poison's not lethal.  Get enough
			of 'em on you -- that's another story.

The scorpion is doing something very odd: it repeatedly jabs the
dead man with its stinger.  INDY and MARION exchange looks.

					MARION
			Let's go, Indy!

They swing around and start running again.  

A FEW YARDS AHEAD, INDY and MARION slow down and stop.  They are 
looking out ahead of them with great perplexity on their faces.

					MARION
			Why....is the ground moving?  
				 (then with growing fear)
			Indy-y-y!  The ground is moving!

MARION'S right, the ground is moving ... in their direction ...
from all directions, except from the rear.  No ... not the ground
... something else?

NOW THIS YOU DON'T SEE EVERYDAY: SCORPIONS!  THE DISGUSTING
CRITTERS ARE MASSED TOGETHER LIKE STAMPEDING HERDS OF CATTLE. 
HUNDREDS!   MORE LIKE THOUSANDS!   STINGS RAISED LIKE HOOKED
FINGERS AND PINCERS CLACKING LIKE TOY CHATTER-TEETH!

					MARION
			INDY-Y-Y-Y!

					INDY
			RUN, MARION!  RUN!


EXT. FOOTHILL ROAD, BACK TO

The CABBY as he kicks his car tire again, MUMBLING.  A sound.  He
turns to see the Americans running back his way.  

					CABBY
				 (frightened)
			Mmmmmmmmmm!

INDY and MARION run for their lives.

					INDY
			CAR, MARION!  THE CAR!  

The cabby sees them now: THOUSANDS OF CHARGING SCORPIONS!

					CABBY
				 (freaking out)
			Mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm!!!


INT. CAB

INDY and MARION pile in after the CABBY.

					INDY
			WINDOWS!  WINDOWS!



HANDS roll up all the windows in a hurry!


EXT. THE CAB

as the scorpion hordes converge on the cab.  There's not a grain
of sand visible through their thick layer.  The critters don't
stop once at the cab.  They scurry up on top of it, jabbing their
stingers against the frame and windows wildly.


INT. THE CAB

The racket in here is deafening!  Like a thousand, rapidly tapping
finger nails.  Maddening!  The trapped inside are being plunged
into darkness as the windows seal over! 
			 
Tiny slivers of sunlight poke in, blinking and dancing like lasers
beams.  MARION is screaming.  The CABBY is trying to scream.  

INDY should be screaming, but is instead eyeing something up in
the frontseat -- THE GEAR SHIFTER!  Springing forward, INDY jerks
back the shifter into neutral!


EXT. THE CAB

as it begins to roll backwards on the down sloping road, over the
carpet of critters, squashing them under the tires.  CRUNCH! 
SQUISH!  A hundred times over!    
	 
The cab picks up speed, bouncing roughly on the rugged road.  The
jarring sends the free-riding scorpions flying off and into the
dirt. 


INT. CAB

Our heros are thrown about!


EXT. CAB

as it leaves the road and drops down into a ditch with a CRUNCH! 
Shaken, INDY and MARION scramble out.  The CABBY wastes no time
and runs off toward the distant lights of Dogubeyazit.

MARION yelps and jumps onto INDY'S back.  INDY stomps on the few
remaining critters.

					MARION
			INDY -- THERE!  THERE!  GET IT!  GET IT!

					INDY
			I don't see anymore!  C'mon.  

					MARION
				 (pulling back)
			Not with those things out there!


					INDY
			Whaddaya suggest we do -- fly!

At which point MARION sees something.

					MARION
			How about ride?

She points up.  Perched on a low bluff is a HORSE, grazing on some
wild grass.  It's a thoroughbred and fully saddled.  Bets are it
belonged to the horseman who earlier on had leaped from the bluff
and onto the roof of Vladimirov's truck.  

SHARPLY CUT TO:

INDY and MARION on the horse!  

					INDY
			YAH!


The horse takes off at a charge!


EXT. BASE OF THE MOUNTAIN - FOOTHILLS - SUNDOWN

INDY and MARION ride up on the horse.  They see the truck.

Climbing off and helping MARION --

					INDY
			The map's genuine.  This is where they
			started.	 

					MARION
			They got nearly a full day's head start!

INDY looks inside the truck.

					INDY
			There's gear in here!

INDY jumps inside the hold and starts suiting up.

					MARION
			Any more?

					INDY
			Marion, you're staying here!

					MARION
			Like hell I am!

					INDY
			Marion -- there isn't enough gear here
			for two of us!

					MARION
			But Indy --


					INDY
			You'd just be holding me back.

					MARION
			But, Indy, he's my son!

					INDY
			With enough luck, I'll get to them
			before they reach the 7 mile pass.

					MARION
			I'm counting on you, Indy.  Don't let
			him hurt my boy.

					INDY
			Never.

										CUT TO:


EXT. ABANDONED MOUNTAIN VILLAGE - SUNDOWN

Just over a hundred years ago this was a thriving village on the
mountain's lower plateau.  Now it is in ruins.  The aftermath of a
giant earthquake.  Jagged boulders, as big as houses, broke off
from the cliff face above and crushed the village.  

The resulting avalanche buried back then what wasn't pulverised
under a tidal wave of rock and snow.  What remains of the village
today is very little.  At first glance, there doesn't appear to be
a village at all.  A closer look, however, reveals structural
walls and the geometrical shapes of dwellings and courtyards under
a crust of rock and earth.	

The team enter this forsaken place.

					BILL 
			Magnificent!

					VLADIMIROV
			You see, Doctor, some structures still
			remain intact.  Adequate shelter for the
			night.


INT. INTACT COTTAGE/CAMP SHELTER - NIGHT

A camp fire burns brightly.  BILL and two of the Comrades sit
around the fire drinking hot coffee.  The two soldiers watch BILL
silently.  Feeling eyes upon him, BILL shifts uncomfortably.  Then
he's had enough --

						BILL
				 (snapping)
			Why not take a picture!  It will last
			longer!

VLADIMIROV enters through a big hole in the wall.  With him is the
other comrade.  Someone is missing?



					VLADIMIROV
			Where is Abner?

					BILL
			He went to the washroom.


EXT. ABANDONED VILLAGE - NIGHT

VLADIMIROV manoeuvres around rock debris, the beam from his helmet
lamp casting a pool of light ahead of him.  

VLADIMIROV sees a light shaft arching to and fro inside a not too
distant dwelling.


INT. NOT TOO DISTANT DWELLING - JUST AFTER

ABNER is checking out the place.  A solidified mound of rock and
earth protrudes in through where a wall once stood.  

At the time of the avalanche, a wave of rock and snow came
crashing in.  A century later, the mound is as solid as granite. 
A permanent addition to the dwelling.	

ABNER'S helmet lamp illuminates a series of stain-glass windows at
the side.  Miraculously, they survived the quake, the avalanche,
and the century of harsh weather that followed.

					VLADIMIROV'S VOICE
			Abner!

VLADIMIROV is standing just outside a crumbled section of wall.

					ABNER
			Look at the glass.  It's so pretty.

VLADIMIROV smiles and moves to step inside -- but is forced back,
as if he bumped into some invisible barrier!  Alarm washes over
VLADIMIROV'S face! 

					ABNER
			C'mon in and see.

VLADIMIROV tries it again -- but is forced back as before! 
Bizarre ... but it seems as if this place doesn't want VLADIMIROV
inside.  

					VLADIMIROV
				 (sharply) 
			Abner!  Come!  We must get some sleep!

					ABNER
			Aw nuts!

					VLADIMIROV
			Come!

					ABNER
			I'm comin', awready!


EXT. THE MYSTERIOUS DWELLING - NIGHT

VLADIMIROV leads ABNER quickly away by the hand.  We linger on the
structure ... and slowly BOOM UP to show a steeple, rising from
the dwelling's crust of dirt and rock; then the WHITE CROSS atop
the steeple, all aglow in the moonlight.


EXT. ON THE MOUNTAIN - ROCKY ALCOVE - NIGHT

INDY is shivering as he pats down a pile of wild grass.  He takes
a box of matches from the commandeered parka, fumbles with it, and
spills the matches on the ground.  

INDY scoops up a few and, not bothering with the box, stuffs the
matches into his pant's pocket.  

INDY scrapes his thumb nail across the head of the match and it
ignites.  He lowers the flame to the grass ... and in a few
seconds a fire starts to glow brightly.


INT. CAMP SHELTER - NIGHT

The team are bedded down for the night.  ABNER is restless.

					ABNER
			I can't sleep.

					BILL
			Go to sleep you little brat! 

					ABNER
			Who you calling a brat?  Egg-head! 

Getting up --

					BILL
			Why you little -- !

					VLADIMIROV
			Enough!  Abner!  Go to sleep!

					ABNER
				 (sulking)
			I don't wanna go to bed.  I'm too
			excited.

VLADIMIROV exhales heavily.

					BILL
				 (rubbing it in)
			You wanted to bring him.

VLADIMIROV has an idea:					

					VLADIMIROV
			If I tell you a story, then will you go
			to bed?


					ABNER
			A ghost story, and you got a deal!

					VLADIMIROV
				 (grumbling)
			A ghost story.
				 (but then he grins)
			A ghost story.  If it is a ghost story
			you wish.  Then a ghost story you shall
			get.

ABNER sits up, ready.

					VLADIMIROV		
			Prepare yourself, because it is a
			doosie.

					ABNER
			I'm ready!  I'm ready!

VLADIMIROV puts on his best ghost-story-telling-face and begins:

					VLADIMIROV
			A long time ago.  A time before the
			great flood, the Devil had a child born
			of flesh and bone, but with all the
			powers of evil at his disposal.  For a
			thousand years, the unclean son
			corrupted man, converted the children of
			God to the side of Evil.  This enraged
			the All Mighty.  And as a punishment,
			God promised to banish man from the
			Earth.					 
					(beat)
			News of this came to the ears of the
			unclean son by Noah himself.
					(beat)
			Learning that his kingdom would soon be
			brushed away by the hand of God, the
			unclean son confided in his most
			faithful servant and explained to him:
			"God will destroy what I have built; God
			is all powerful; God will see that my
			flesh falls from my bones."  The Servant
			did not want to believe such horrors,
			but he followed his master's
			instructions to the letter.
					(beat)
			Days before the rain, the unclean son
			was destroyed as predicted -- the evil
			incarnate was gone.  
					(beat)
			As he was instructed, the faithful
			servant took the skull, all that was
			left of the unclean son's earthly form,
			and went in search of Noah.  By this
			time Noah had completed the Ark.  
					(MORE)



					VLADIMIROV CONT.
			And under the guise of a friend, the
			servant asked permission to join Noah
			and his family on the Ark.  
					(beat)
			But Noah had great uncertainties and did
			not believe the friend was true and
			forbid him refuge.
					(beat)
			The servant believed he had failed his
			master.  But then a voice spoke to him,
			and explained what had to be done.  So
			while Noah and his family waited for the
			rains to come, the servant crept on
			board the Ark and hid away the unclean
			son's skull in the bow.
			Then the servant, given a moments power
			by his master, left his earthly form and
			buried himself deep inside an elephant.

ABNER, so engrossed, can only mouth the words "Holy Toledo".

					VLADIMIROV CONT.
			As Noah was foretold, the heavens opened
			and the waters prevailed.  
			The great sea rose to incredible
			heights.  Covering the highest
			mountains.  
				 (truly grievous)
			The kingdom and all its people sank into
			a deep abyss. 
			Women...children....families...all gone. 
				 (collecting himself)
			More than a year later, the Ark settled,
			here, on Mount Ararat.  And one by one
			the animals filed off the Ark and walked
			to the four corners of the cleansed
			earth.
					(beat)
			Centuries passed, and the elephant,
			which had beeen given a long life span
			by God, finally died.  From the animal's
			rotting flesh, the servant emerged in
			the shape of his earthly self.  But
			something was wrong.  The servant was
			far from any place he knew.  A crucial
			mistake had been made.  And the unclean
			son was lost.  
					(beat)
			Throughout his life the servant searched
			for that place where the Ark had
			settled, spreading word of the evil
			scriptures; recruiting the young and old
			for a time when the unclean son would
			return as flesh and retake the earth. 
			And for generations, the search endured.
					(MORE)




					VLADIMIROV CONT.
					(beat)
			5 thousand years pass...to this night. 
			And right now there roams a man, an evil
			man, who is the long descendant of the
			faithful servant.  This evil man's only
			purpose in life is to make his master
			flesh again.  And to do this, he has
			been reassembling a skeleton --

					ABNER
				 (jumping in)
			Skeleton!

					VLADIMIROV CONT. 
			Yes.  From the bones of those men who,
			over the centuries, had shown an
			unwavering dedication to evil.  It has
			been a long, laborious task.
				 (thoughtfully)
			So much so that evil man gave up
			hope....began to doubt the scriptures he
			so once truly believed.  The evil man
			had allowed himself to be blinded by the
			rationale of modern thinking.
					(beat)
			But now that has changed.  For the evil
			man sees a dark light on the horizon.  
			A wonderful light.  And the skeleton,
			which had been passed down from
			generation to generation, each one
			adding to its reconstruction, is almost
			complete.  Now, after centuries, only
			one piece -- but the most critical --
			awaits him atop this mountain.

					ABNER
				 (jumping in)
			The skull!

					VLADIMIROV
			Precisely.  So you see, Abner, why the
			Ark is so significant, because it houses
			the all important piece.  And if this
			evil man were to ever uncover the Ark,
			he would find the unclean son's skull. 
			Then 5 thousand years of sleep would
			end.  The unclean son would be born
			again of flesh and reclaim the Earth in
			his name ... and all of Godkind would be
			doomed.
				 (leaning in close)
			So Abner, whatever you do, do not tell
			this evil man where the Ark is.	

ABNER is pretty darn scared.  VLADIMIROV chuckles, as does his
men.

					VLADIMIROV
			I see you like my story.  

					ABNER
			Boy...that's pretty scary.  Neat...but
			scary.  

					VLADIMIROV
			Let us get some sleep.  A long day ahead
			of us tomorrow.

ABNER rolls over, imagination getting the better of him.  One of
VLADIMIROV'S comrades whispers:
				 
					COMRADE 4 
			I believe you have terrified the boy.

					VLADIMIROV 
			It would be merciful to kill him now,
			before the "Coming"... but I have plans
			for this little one.    
		 
									CUT TO:


EXT. ON THE MOUNTAIN - HIGH, SNOWY SLOPE - DAWN

The team is underway again.  The terrain is dangerously rugged.
The team is making sure they have their crampons (spikes) set in
the ice before pressing onward.

									DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. ABANDONED MOUNTAIN VILLAGE - DAY

INDY, huffing and puffing, refers to the map, using a compass
which he also found in the parka.

INDY gets his direction and presses onward.

									DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. THE 7 MILE PASS - DAY

The team traverse the difficult terrain at a snail's pace.

									DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. BASE OF LITTLE ARARAT - LATE IN THE DAY 

The team pause and take heed of the second peak rising above them.

					ABNER
			We gotta climb that?

					VLADIMIROV
			A walk in the park, for a young, virile
			man like yourself.




					ABNER
			Yeah, you're right.

 BILL shakes his head and begins to uncoil some rope.

					BILL
			I'll scale to the plateau above and
			secure a line.  We can pull the boy up
			that way.

					VLADIMIROV
			Good idea, Doctor.  I knew there was
			some reason why I hired you.	

					ABNER
			How come I can't climb?

					BILL
			It's too dangerous.

					ABNER
				 (false bravado)
			Whuddaya mean -- it's an ant hill! 

					VLADIMIROV
			But, comrade, I suffer from a sore leg. 
			The line would help me.

					ABNER
			Yeah...I guess if you got a sore leg. 
			I'll take the rope too -- just so you
			don't feel bad.

					VLADIMIROV
			Thank you, comrade, for having such
			consideration.  

					ABNER
			Think nothing of it.  That's what
			friends are for?


EXT. STEEP RIDGE - LATE IN THE DAY

INDY drops down onto a narrow LEDGE.  He looks down over the 
edge -- A KILLER OF A DROP!  

INDY thinks about his next move.  

INDY starts to drop a line over the side.  He takes a piton (a
sharp blade which, when hammered into rock, anchors the rope for
scaling) and begins to clip his line through the eye of the piton. 

A BIT OF ORANGE against the rocks at the side catches INDY'S eye. 
He leans out and discovers a drop line already anchored to the
rocks, left there by the team earlier.  INDY is grateful.   

									CUT TO:




EXT. SNOW COVERED MOUNTAIN PASS - NEAR SUNDOWN

The team are walking up a snowy slope.  In a moment, the team are 
atop the slope.  The CAMERA continues upward, rising above the
team's heads and reveals

A DEEP, WIDE TRENCH SEPARATING THE TEAM FROM THE OTHER SIDE, WHERE
ANOTHER LABORIOUS CLIMB OVER A GRAND SLOPE AWAITS THEM.

					VLADIMIROV
			The Ark is another day's journey, no
			more.  We will set up camp on the other
			side of the gorge.  Doctor?

					BILL
			We'll have to rig a bridge line.

					VLADIMIROV
			Alright, let's get to work.

SHARPLY CUT TO:

A COMRADE as he sights a rifle -- WOOF!

AN ANCHOR IS SHOT INTO THE ROCK OVER ON THE OTHER SIDE.

					BILL
			I'll go across and secure a scaling
			line.  That lip looks rather precarious.

					VLADIMIROV
			I have complete confidence in you,
			Doctor.


EXT. THE 7 MILE PASS - NEAR SUNDOWN

INDY is just a speck against the sea of snow and ice.  

ON INDY, his face long with fatigue.  The mountain is taking its
toll on him.


EXT. GOAL SIDE OF THE DEEP TRENCH - SUNDOWN 

BILL comes face to face with the opposite wall of the gorge.  He
is hanging from the secured bridge line.  

A good, strong thrust and BILL plants his ice axe deep into the
icy lip.  Then with surprising agility, BILL pulls himself up,
sinking the spikes of his crampons in fast to give him support.   

Yelling from the opposite side --

					VLADIMIROV
			Yes, Doctor, you never cease to amaze
			me!

BILL, using two ice axes, his crampons, climbs the icy lip to the
top.

					BILL
				 (grumbling)
			And you, Vladimirov, never cease to
			annoy me.

Now BILL is safe on the slope, working an ice screw into the thick
permafrost.	 

Now BILL is securing a rope to the ice screw.  Then, at the rim,
he drops the scaling line over the side and it dangles alongside
the bridge line below.

Yelling across to the others --

					BILL
			Alright!  One at a time!  
  
SHARPLY CUT TO:

A dizzying high shot over the trench.  

ABNER crosses hand-over-hand, secured to the bridge line by a
wheeled harness.

Yelling to ABNER --

					BILL
			Don't look down.  Keep your eyes on me!

ABNER is shaking, and it's not from the cold.

Yelling from the opposite side --

					VLADIMIROV
			That's it, comrade.  You're doing
			splendidly.  The Soviet Airforce could
			use a man like yourself!

					BILL
				 (yelling back)
			Let the boy concentrate!  Okay, that's
			it.  Just a bit further.


EXT. BASE OF LITTLE ARARAT - SUNDOWN

INDY runs up, his chest heaving.  While catching his breath, INDY
sees a rope dangling at the side.


EXT. DEEP TRENCH

ABNER comes face to face with the far wall of the trench.

					BILL
			See the carabiner?

					ABNER
			The what!!


					BILL
			The metal thing on the end of the rope!

					ABNER
			Yeah, yeah!  Okay!

					BILL
			Clip it onto your harness ring!  After
			that --

					ABNER
			One thing at a time!

 BILL snarls.  He waits.

					BILL
			Have you done that?

					ABNER
			Yeah, yeah!  I did that!

					BILL
			Now unhook yourself from the wheel.

ABNER pulls himself up a bit, to slacken the strap fixed to the
wheel, and unclips himself.  His full weight surprises him -- and
he is yanked off the bridge line!   He drops!

VLADIMIROV panics --

					VLADIMIROV
			Abner!

ABNER hits the gorge wall, grunting.

ABOVE, BILL has the rope held tight in his hands --

					BILL
			I got you!  I got you!  Hold on!

BILL starts to pull on the rope.

ABNER is hauled up slowly.

Now BILL is helping ABNER up to safety.  

					ABNER
			Thanks!  Wow!  That was close!

>From the other side --

					VLADIMIROV
			Is the boy alright?

					ABNER
				 (yelling back)
			Yeah!  I'm fine, sir!  No problem!




VLADIMIROV turns to a Comrade --

					VLADIMIROV 
				 (proudly)
			His spirit of adventure is strong.  A
			diamond in the rough.	

 BILL plants ABNER on the grand slope.  

					BILL
			Don't move!

					ABNER
				 (saluting sarcastically)
			Yes, sir!

					BILL
				 (yelling across)
			Alright!  Someone else!  Let's go, we're
			losing the light!


EXT. ON LITTLE ARARAT - SUNDOWN

INDY is hard at work scaling up the mountain.

UP CLOSE ON INDY'S spiked boots as they stab at the ice; as his
ice axe sinks home.


EXT. A PLATEAU - JUST AFTER 

INDY'S HAND, it clutching the ice axe, pops up -- 

INDY'S HAND sets the ice axe firmly in the frozen ledge.  A
moment.  Then INDY himself pops up, his face flushed, and
breathing hard.

Now INDY is safely on the plateau.  He catches his breath a
moment.  Then presses onward.


EXT. GOAL SIDE OF THE TRENCH - DUSK

The team are all across now.  VLADIMIROV puts a comforting hand on
ABNER'S shoulder.  

					VLADIMIROV
			Excellent.  Let us set up camp on top of
			the slope.  

The team move out.  BILL leads the way.  

The team follow BILL up the grand slope.  BILL looks back to 
say something --

					BILL
			I hope someone was smart enough to bring
			a cam --


Suddenly the ice beneath BILL caves in!  BILL drops through the
snow, out of sight.  

					ABNER
			Bill!


INT. A POSSIBLE CREVICE

BILL lands hard in the dark and screams out as a bone in his leg
snaps!  

ABNER appears at the hole above --

					ABNER
			Bill!  Bill!

VLADIMIROV appears next --

					VLADIMIROV
			Doctor!

IN THE DARK, BILL groans and manages to yell --

					BILL
			I (yelp) -- my leg's broken!

					VLADIMIROV
			It appears you've fallen into a crevice. 
			We'll get a rope down to you.

					BILL
			Hurry!

BILL snaps on his helmet lamp -- and all the pain shooting through
his leg is forgotten.  

BILL stares out at what the light has revealed.  A heavenly choir
mixes up, growing louder, exemplifing the divinity of his
discovery. 

					BILL
				 (barely able to speak)
			I...my god...
				 (he smiles)
			I found it.
				 (yelling)
			I found it!						 
			
He has indeed: NOAH'S ARK!

The helmet's beam shines on rotten support struts, thick beams,
and, incredibly, a row of animal stalls!  Upper and lower.  It's
difficult to tell, but it is very big inside here.  Bigger than
the cargo hold of most ships!	 

>From above --

					VLADIMIROV
			What have you found, Doctor?

					BILL
				 (giddy)
			The Ark!  Noah's Ark!  You fool!

ABOVE, we see the look on VLADIMIROV'S face; it is quite moving. 
Then VLADIMIROV expression changes ... he looks confused.

					VLADIMIROV
			But the Ark shouldn't be here...?    
					
The team begin to scoop away the snow and ice quickly.  

Soon they've cleared an area around the hole.  Revealed are the
dark planks of the ancient vessel's roof.

					VLADIMIROV (*subtitled*)
				 (in that strange
				 language)
			The skull.

VLADIMIROV pulls off his glove and places his hand against a
frozen plank.  He snaps his hand back to the sound of sizzling
flesh!  

					ABNER
			What -- what is it?!

					VLADIMIROV
				 (lying)
			Cold!  Very cold!

ABNER reaches out with his hand tentatively.  He places a finger
against the wood, prepared to snap back his hand at any second. 
But he doesn't.  Frowning, ABNER places his whole hand against the
roof.

					ABNER
			It's not cold...It feels warm.  Nice.

VLADIMIROV grins smugly.

					VLADIMIROV
			Now you see gentlemen why the boy is so
			important.
				 (then with urgency)
			Doctor!  Can you see the bow?!

BELOW, BILL can't believe is eyes.

					VLADIMIROV AGAIN
			Can you see the bow, Doctor?

 BILL collects himself enough to answer him.

					BILL
			Ah....

He looks around, the helmet lamp lighting what he sees.



					BILL CONT.
			I think this is the stern?  

The lamp shines on the farthest end: flat.

					BILL CONT.
			Yes, definitely the stern.

BILL looks around behind him.  The lamp shines on a glittering
wall of white -- snow.  The beam pans around to reveal planks
abruptly ending, jagged and splintered.

					BILL
			The bow is missing! 

>From above --

					VLADIMIROV
			What do you mean, "The bow is missing."?

					BILL
			Just that!  Looks...looks like the front
			section has broken off.  There's jagged
			planks and a wall of snow.

On VLADIMIROV, who mutters --

					VLADIMIROV
			Where is the bow?

Now it dawns on him...

AT THE RIM OF THE TRENCH, VLADIMIROV and his comrades appear. 
They look down into the trench some 100 feet deep.

					VLADIMIROV 
			Appears the Almighty isn't going to make
			this easy.  Get the rope ladder.

ABNER, at the hole, watches the beam from BILL'S helmet lamp arc
to and fro.

					ABNER
			What's it like down there?

					BILL
			Inconceivable!  I...
				 (difficult to put into
				 words)
			...I... feel an energy of some kind. 
			Humming....humming all around me.  
				 (chuckling delightfully)
			I dare say, young man, but I do believe
			it is the power of God!

AT THE RIM, a comrade is securing a rope ladder to ice screws. 
That done, he tosses the ladder over the edge.

The ladder drops, unrolling to about 75 feet -- too short!


					VLADIMIROV
			As I feared.
				 (ordering)
			Take a rope.  Climb down and clip it to
			the foot of the ladder.

Back to ABNER at the hole --

					ABNER
			Whuddaya see?

 BILL can't get over it.

					BILL
			Everything!   

IN THE GORGE, comrade 2 is climbing down the ladder.  He reaches
the bottom and clips the line to the last rung.  He drops the
secured rope.  It uncoils the rest of the way to the snowy bed
below. 

Leaning out, VLADIMIROV sees his man on the ladder far below.

					VLADIMIROV
			Slide down the rope.  See what is under
			the snow below you.

					COMRADE 2
			Yes, Comrade Captain!

The comrade starts down --

CLOSE ON one of the ice screws which anchors the rope ladder to
the ledge -- it is moving!  Too much weight! 

The comrade plants his boots on the gorge wall.  He begins to
scale down --

At which point the ice screw POPS OUT!

The ladder shifts downward on one side, startling the comrade, who
then loses his footing and falls!

The comrade lands in the snow below and drops right through, out
of sight --

INSIDE THE BOW, the comrade comes crashing in from above!  He
lands hard on a thick beam!  Wood splinters drop in on top of him! 

The comrade, broken, hurting, has landed inside the bow which
resembles half a ribcage with its curved framing beams and joists. 
The fractured bow section is partially collapsed and lies on it's
side.  

The comrade is barley able to lift his head, back broken most
likely.  But that's the least of his problems, as right now he
begins to convulse, jolt, as if shot through with electricity! 
The convulsions intensify; becoming more and more brutal!  Until
suddenly, with a tortured shriek, the comrade erupts into flames
like a Roman candle!		 
				 

ON THE RIM, VLADIMIROV reacts suddenly to the fire ball blasting
up through the hole made by his fallen comrade!

The fireball dissipates quickly, as does VLADIMIROV'S patience!
He curses the sky --

					VLADIMIROV
			Damn you!

VLADIMIROV takes a moment to think.  Then he bounds up the slope,
shaky with desperation.

ABNER sees VLADIMIROV approaching.  

					ABNER
			Did you hear a scream?

					VLADIMIROV
				 (edgy)
			It was nothing.  Abner, we are friends,
			are we not?

					ABNER
			Sure.  'Course we are.

					VLADIMIROV
			Do you remember how grateful you were
			when I allowed you to come on this
			expedition?

					ABNER
			Sure I do.

					VLADIMIROV
			I need you to do something for me.  It's
			dangerous.  But I know you can do it.

					ABNER
			Anything.  What is it?  
				 
Now ABNER and VLADIMIROV are at the rim:

					VLADIMIROV
			You must go down there and retrieve the
			skull.

					ABNER
			The skull!  But that was just a ghost
			story.

					VLADIMIROV
			No...it is true, Abner.  And we must get
			the skull before the evil man does. 
			Help me!

					ABNER
				 (frightened)
			The...the evil man is here?



					VLADIMIROV
			No.  And he won't come as long as I am
			here to protect you.  I would go myself,
			but my bad leg.

Pause.

					ABNER
			Okay...I guess.

					VLADIMIROV
			You are a good friend, Abner.  Your
			father would be very proud of you.
			Here --

He clips ABNER'S harness to the end of a rope.  

					VLADIMIROV
			I will lower you down.  Be brave,
			comrade.  Keep your eyes on the wall of
			the gorge.  Do not look down.

VLADIMIROV helps ABNER drop his legs over the side.

					VLADIMIROV
			I will see you shortly.

FROM A DIZZYING HIGH SHOT, ABNER'S tiny body is just a speck
against the jagged trench wall.  

ABNER is lowered toward the bed 8 stories down. 

And then, at last, ABNER'S boots set down on the crust of snow
which incases the bow section.

Yelling down from above --

					VLADIMIROV
			Go to the hole!  I will lower you in.

ABNER snaps on his helmet lamp and sits down on the edge of the
hole --

VLADIMIROV keeps the rope taut and starts to feed the line.

ABNER is eased through the hole and drops down out of sight.

INSIDE THE BOW, ABNER is lowered slowly toward the framework
below.  His helmet lamp shines on the ribs and support beams.  The
panic on ABNER'S face diminishes and is replaced by wonder and the
thrill of discovery.		

VLADIMIROV feels the rope slacken as the boy touches down inside
and he breathes a little easier.
 
INSIDE THE BOW, ABNER turns around slowly, allowing the light to
shine on every part of this mesmerizing place.





ABOVE, VLADIMIROV goes into a trance, chanting words in that
strange tongue again.  A gothic choir, deep and foreboding, powers
the chanting, making our skin crawl.  

					VLADIMIROV (*subtitled*)
			Show him!  Show him!  Show him! 

INSIDE THE BOW, close on a pile of snow -- something underneath it
is moving!  The gothic choir intones darkly, swelling with energy.

					VLADIMIROV'S CHANTING
			SHOW HIM!  SHOW HIM!

Through the magic of unspeakable evil the snow melts away from
around a 

HUMAN SKULL!  

With a look full of wonder, ABNER gapes wide-eyed at the skull. 
The gothic choir reaches a crescendo!


INT. CAB OF TRUCK

as MARION sits up, sensing danger!

					MARION
			Abner?


EXT. BOTTOM OF THE TRENCH

ABNER is pulled back up through the hole.

VLADIMIROV shouts down --

					VLADIMIROV
			Do you have it?

					ABNER
				 (shouting back)
			Yes!  It's in my hand!

					VLADIMIROV
				 (darkly)
			The "Coming" will be earth shattering!
				 (but first things first)
			Put the skull in your helmet, like a
			basket, and attach the chin straps to
			the rope!

					ABNER
			What about me!!

					VLADIMIROV
			Trust me, comrade!  I would never leave
			you!




Without hesitation, ABNER removes his helmet, places the skull
inside it, and secures the chin straps to the rope he was lowered
down on.  

					ABNER
			Okay!  Bring it up!

The helmet is pulled up slowly.

VLADIMIROV gently takes up the line.  A comrade reminds 
him --

					COMRADE 3
			We have only three parachutes.

					VLADIMIROV
				 (sadly)
			Yes...I know.  It is a waste.  But the
			boy will die.  
				 (comfortingly)
			He will be spared the horror of the
			"Coming".  That is my gift.  
				 (ordering)
			Prepare the dynamite.  Nothing of God
			can remain.  The Earth belongs to Him
			and the Sons Of Darkness.  I will not
			have it cluttered with God's toys!


EXT. THE TRUCK - NIGHT

MARION paces back and forth, looking helpless.

					MARION
			Indy ... please hurry.


EXT. THE RIM 

as ABNER'S helmet pops up at the end of the rope.  VLADIMIROV
scrambles to the helmet.  

VLADIMIROV gently lifts out the skull, shaking with excitement. 
With reverence he holds the skull up to his face.  

VLADIMIROV grins at the thought of a classic line coming to him. 
He softly speaks in a thespian voice --
					
					VLADIMIROV
			"To be or not to be?"	 

An interruption --

					COMRADE 2
			We are ready, comrade Captain.

					VLADIMIROV
				 (testily)
			Yes!  Yes!


DOWN IN THE TRENCH, ABNER is becoming impatient.

					ABNER
			Hey!  C'mon!  Send down the rope,
			already!

BACK TO THE RIM ABOVE, we see it is now lined with enough DYNAMITE
to blow up half the mountain -- or at least enough to destroy the
Ark and bury the remaining bits for all eternity.  

The fuses from the 2 dozen or more sticks come in and meet
together, having been spliced into ONE MAIN FUSE LINE.

					ABNER'S VOICE
				 (shouting)
			Yugi!

At the hole, VLADIMIROV looks down inside.  The light from BILL'S
helmet is all he can see.

					VLADIMIROV
			Hello, Doctor!

					BILL'S VOICE
			Where the hell have you been!

					VLADIMIROV
			Doctor, please, you are in God's temple. 
			Watch your langauge.

					BILL'S VOICE
			Get me out of here!

As VLADIMIROV prattles on, COMRADE 3 lowers a few sticks of
dynamite into the hole; and COMRADE 2 takes their fuses and
splices them into the main fuse line.

					VLADIMIROV
			Your services have been greatly
			appreciated, Doctor.  But as you well
			know: all great things must come to an
			end.  

					BILL'S VOICE
			What are you going on about!!

					VLADIMIROV
			Farewell, Doctor, you've been a most
			sensational comic relief.    

					BILL'S VOICE
			Farewell!  What do you mean "farewell"? 
			Get a rope down here!  Now!  You
			ignoramus!  

					VLADIMIROV
				 (making a face at his men)
			This one I'm not sad to see go.



IN THE TRENCH, ABNER is looking worried.  Now it hits him --

					ABNER
			Dirty -- rotten -- scoundrel!
			What an evil thing to do!

A horrible thought --

					ABNER
			Evil...evil man!  Yugi's the evil man!  
				 (realizing what he's done)
			Oh no!

At which point a DANGLING ORANGE ROPE catches ABNER'S eye.  He
hurries over to it and follows its length up to see it is attached
to a ladder hanging askew against the gorge wall above.


EXT. TRUCK - NIGHT

MARION has to do something.  The tension is killing her.  The
horse she and INDY rode in on neighs fussily, pulling on its
reigns tied to the truck.  MARION regards the horse....

A sharp cut: and now MARION is riding off on the horse.  She
steers the animal south, around the base of the mountain.


EXT. ON THE SLOPE - NIGHT

VLADIMIROV is walking up toward the top, silhouetted ominously
against the starry night sky.  COMRADE 3 follows behind.  While
COMRADE 2 is keeping an eye on the fuse spindle; he has an ice axe
inserted through the core so that the spindle can wheel freely.  

The main fuse line is being laid out in the trail of these "Sons
of Darkness."


EXT. THE TRENCH WALL 

ABNER is climbing up the drop line, hand-over-hand, supporting
himself against the rocks with his feet.  It's tough.  But the kid
is doing it.

Now ABNER is at the rope ladder.  He's out of breath.  

ABNER transfers from the drop line to the ladder without much
difficulty.  But he's having trouble planting a foot on an upper
rung as the ladder is hanging askew.  A bit of work.  Then ABNER
gets his boot in.  

ABNER starts to climb the ladder...


EXT. MOUNTAIN RIDGE - NIGHT

Their Helmet lamps lighting the way, VLADIMIROV and his men
traverse the narrow ridge.


					VLADIMIROV
			The opposite side of this ridge gives us
			a clear place to jump.  Fifteen minutes
			flight time.  Then we will be over the
			border and into Soviet territory. 
					(a question)
			Is all ready at the landing zone?

					COMRADE 3
			Yes, comrade Captain.

					VLADIMIROV
			Dispense with the formalities, my
			brother.  We are equal now.  We are the
			Sons of Darkness.

COMRADE 2 brings up the rear, at work laying down the main fuse
line.

    
EXT. TRENCH WALL - NIGHT

ABNER is nearing the rim.  About twelve more feet to go.

But danger rears its ugly head: the second ice screw, the only one
which anchors the ladder, is 

STARTING TO SLIP OUT!   

On the ladder, ABNER cringes, REACHING UP FOR ANOTHER RUNG.

Suddenly the ladder shifts downward --

The ice screw is slipping out -- another inch and it's goodbye
ABNER!

ABNER is very still, afraid to move.  The ladder shifts downward
again!  ABNER cries out and snaps a LOOK DOWN at the jagged rocks
some 8 stories below!  He snaps a desperate LOOK UP to the bridge
line above.  But its out of reach!  

THERE GOES THE ICE SCREW -- POP!

The ladder goes slack.  ABNER can feel himself starting to 
fall -- !

Suddenly -- from out of no where -- comes a DARK FIGURE, swooping
in like a bird.  

THE FIGURE scoops up ABNER around the waist with nary a second to
spare!

IT'S INDIANA JONES!    

INDY clings to his bullwhip with one hand, his free arm wrapped
around ABNER.  A quick shot details the fall of the whip (that is,
the unplaited strip at the end of the lash) which is tied to the
bridge line.



ABNER clings to INDY, amazed --  

					ABNER
			Dad!  Where'd you come from?
			Thought I was a goner!

					INDY
			We're not out of this yet!  Get around,
			onto my back.

ABNER quickly, but carefully, climbs around onto his father's
back, piggy-back style.

					INDY
			That's it.  Now put your arms around my
			neck.  Hold on tight!

INDY strains himself, working the little loop at the whip-handle's
end into a carabiner attached to the harness around his waist. 
That allows him to hang freely and use both his hands.

INDY starts himself swinging toward the gorge wall.  Soon he's
swinging strong.  An ice axe in each hand, INDY tries to sink them
into the think frost which layers the wall.  He misses on the
first attempt.  

INDY swings back -- and this time sinks the ice axes with a
reassuring THUNK!  He rams his boot crampons deep into the ice for
added support.  One slow move at a time, INDY begins the 12 foot
climb to the rim.


EXT. HIGH LEDGE - NIGHT

VLADIMIROV and his men appear.  The view is breathtaking from up
here.  We can see right across into the heartland of Russia.

					VLADIMIROV    
			Prepare to jump.


EXT. THE RIM - NIGHT

INDY POPS UP from behind the rim.  The ice axes, dug in, are
sturdy handholds.  He's made it.  Relief.  Not so fast.  The FRAME
ADJUSTS to show the row of dynamite sticks, only a foot from
INDY'S face.	

					INDY
			You gotta be kidding me!

					ABNER
			What!  What's wrong!

					INDY
			Nothing -- reach over and grab hold of
			the axe.  I gotcha.

ABNER reaches out and grabs the axe handle.


					INDY
			I'm gonna help you.  Now pull yourself
			off and onto the ledge.  Dig your boot
			spikes in for support.

ABNER is doing a fine job of it.  

Now Father and son are safe on the ledge.  But what this -- INDY
is going back down.

					ABNER
			Where you going?

					INDY
			Just stay here!

INDY climbs back down to the bridge line.  He pulls on the
bullwhip and the knotted end slides across to him.  Using a knife,
INDY cuts off the fall of the whip --

MATCH CUT TO:

INDY as he cuts the main fuse line.  ABNER scans the slope.

					ABNER
			He's gone!  Dad!  You gotta go after
			him!

INDY coils up his bullwhip and secures it to his belt.

					INDY
			I'm not going anywhere!

					ABNER
			But you don't understand!

					INDY
			Abner, enough!  All I care about is you.

					ABNER
			But, dad, he's the evil man.  He's got
			the skull.  It's the end of all Godkind!

INDY grimaces.


EXT. THE JUMPING LEDGE - NIGHT 

VLADIMIROV is looking introspective all of a sudden.  He has a
parachute bundle strapped on, watching the others put on theirs.

VLADIMIROV looks as if he's made a decision.  He unholsters his
sidearm and blasts his own men!  

VLADIMIROV starts to back track along the narrow ridge.


EXT. THE HOLE - NIGHT

BILL'S cries for help are rising up through the hole --

					BILL'S VOICE
			SOMEBODEEEE!  HELP!  

INDY and ABNER crouch down at the hole --

					INDY
			Bill!  That you?

					BILL'S VOICE
			Jones!  Thank God!  Get me out of here!

					INDY
			What is this?

					ABNER
			He's in the Ark. 

					INDY
			Noah's Ark?

Immediately INDY is seized by the archaeologist in him.  He snaps
on his helmet lamp and dunks his head through the hole.  Upside
down, he shines his light over the interior.

					INDY
			My God.

						BILL BELOW
			JONES!  GET ME THE HELL OUT OF HERE!

					INDY
				 (in awe; muttering)
			Incredible.

INDY turns his head and the helmet lamp shines on something 
... looks like a wire ... it is dangling a foot from INDY's face
turned upside down.  But INDY only has a second to regard it --   

					ABNER SUDDENLY
				 (screeching)
			Dad!

INDY snaps back up through the hole -- 

VLADIMIROV has ABNER by the scruff of the neck, his gun pointed at
the boy's head! 

					VLADIMIROV
			Not another move, Doctor Jones.

					INDY
			Don't hurt the boy!  
					
					VLADIMIROV
			I do not plan to.  Unless you give me a
			reason.

					ABNER
			Dad!


					INDY
			Be still, Abner!

					VLADIMIROV
			I did not expect to find you here,
			Doctor.

					INDY
			What do you want?

					VLADIMIROV
			Unfortunately something you and I both
			want.  I've grown quite found of the
			boy.  

					INDY
			What are you saying?

					VLADIMIROV
			I want the boy.  World domination can be
			very lonely.

					INDY
			No!  I won't let you take him!

					VLADIMIROV
			I'd say you have no choice in the
			matter!

VLADIMIROV turns the gun on INDY.  At which point ABNER stomps on
VLADIMIROV'S foot with his spiky boot!  VLADIMIROV cringes.  ABNER
pulls free.

INDY springs up and tackles VLADIMIROV to the ground.  The force
sends both men sliding down the slope!

They bowl through the dynamite sticks and come to a stop just a
few feet from the rim!  VLADIMIROV punches INDY in the face.  

					VLADIMIROV
				 (spitting mad)
			Simple minded fool!  You have no idea
			what you are up against!  

INDY spits blood.

					INDY
			Just leave the boy!

					VLADIMIROV
			You have no idea how powerful faith can
			be!  Faith!  Something you lack!

VLADIMIROV clamps his big hands around INDY'S head.  INDY grimaces
at the inhuman pressure put on his skull!







					VLADIMIROV
			An earthly imprison was the unclean
			son's punishment.  But that wasn't good
			enough for your god.  The All Mighty
			washed away which was, by cast down, his
			world.

As VLADIMIROV rambles on, INDY'S squirming hand brushes a DYNAMITE
STICK.  

					VLADIMIROV CONT.
			See the truth.  You must see!  Witness
			for yourself the crimes that God of
			yours has committed.

INDY gets hold of the dynamite!  He manages to surreptitiously
slip the stick into the pocket of VLADIMIROV'S pants.  

					VLADIMIROV CONT.
			Witness the destruction your god handed
			down!  Your god of mercy!  Your god of
			love!  Feel the pain which mine have
			endured for 5 millennia! 

INDY'S hand slips out a match from those put in his pocket -- and
he ignites it with his thumb!  

					VLADIMIROV
				 (crazed)
			SEE!  SEE!  SEE!  SEE!			
	
VLADIMIROV looks deep into INDY'S eyes.  At which point all
thoughts INDY had of lighting the fuse evaporate; he's taken into
a numbing trance.

PICTURES begin to materialize in the big Russian's pupils.

SUDDENLY A BLINDING LIGHT FLASHES BRIEFLY!  INDY FINDS HIMSELF
SUSPENDED IN MID AIR AND SURROUNDED BY A 360 DEGREE PROJECTION OF
THE MIND.   IMAGES, AS HIGH AS BUILDINGS, JUMP OUT AT INDY.  OUR
HERO WANTS TO SCREAM, BUT CANNOT.

SCENES FROM 5 MILLENNIA AGO.  EACH ONE OF THEM ASSAULTS OUR
SENSES.  POWERFUL.  OVERWHELMING.  RELENTLESS.  

NOAH'S ARK, THROWN BY A TORRENTIAL SEA.  RAIN.  LIGHTENING.  THE
CRACK OF THUNDER!

THE IMAGES ARE RANDOM.  NO ORDER TO THEM.

HELPLESS PEOPLE, TRYING TO STAY AFLOAT.  THEY GRAB FOR THE ARK! 
OTHERS ARE THROWN AGAINST THE ARK BY SUPER WAVES!  SCREAMS!  CRIES
FOR HELP!  

A MAN WITH A SKULL, THE FAITHFUL SERVANT, SNEAKING ON BOARD THE
ARK.  THE SERVANT HIDING THE SKULL IN THE BOW.  THE SERVANT
TEARING HIS WAY OUT FROM INSIDE THE ELEPHANT -- GHASTLY!




TIDAL WAVES CRASHING DOWN ON VILLAGES.  EARTHQUAKES BREAKING APART
THE COUNTRY SIDE.  WATER GUSHING UP WITH IMMEASURABLE PRESSURE
FROM HUGE CHASMS.    

MORE DEATHS AT SEA.  HUNDREDS -- THOUSANDS -- OF BODIES SINKING
INTO THE MURKY DEPTHS.

NOW ABNER'S PITIFUL FACE MATERIALIZES!  "HELP ME!" ABNER CRIES. 
INDY BELTS OUT A PRIMAL SHRIEK -- AND BREAKS FREE!  A BLINDING
FLASH AND INDY FINDS HIMSELF BACK ON THE SLOPE.

INDY trembles from the overload on his senses.  Through BLURRY
VISION he looks for ABNER.  His son is gone.  

INDY, with great effort, gets to his feet.  He stumbles his way up
the grand slope, falling, getting back up.  Then he collapses in a
heap, too weak.


EXT. JUMPING LEDGE - NIGHT

ABNER is kicking ferociously!  VLADIMIROV does something
desperate.  He punches ABNER in the face!  The boy goes
unconscious.  VLADIMIROV works quickly, clipping ABNER'S harness
to his own.  

VLADIMIROV holds the boy under one arm and steps to the edge.  But
there's something he forgot --


EXT. NARROW RIDGE - NIGHT

INDY, on his feet, is back in business.  INDY looks for crampon
tracks in the snow as he climbs over some rocks.  He's not paying
close attention to where he places his boots -- it costs him!  

INDY'S boot is wedged between the rocks.  INDY tugs hard,
desperate to free his boot.  

WHAT'S THAT?!  INDY hears a FIZZLING SOUND; a sound all too
familiar to him!

A sparkling bright dot appears, travelling up over the rocks, 
hissing past INDY.  The main fuse -- it's been lit!

INDY shakes his head at it, reminding himself -- 

					INDY
			Cut!  Cut the line!

INDY gets back to freeing his wedged boot.  Suddenly, like
lightening, it hits him --

					INDY
			Wire!  Down hole!  Dynamite!

Now seconds count.   INDY gives it everything he's got -- AND THE
BOOT POPS OUT!




EXT. BACK TO THE GRAND SLOPE - JUST AFTER

INDY runs along the charred fuse line.  At the top of the slope,
he looks down the grade -- and there it is!  The sparkling dot is
just seconds from dropping into the hole.  INDY leaps into the
air!  He lands hard on his stomach and the momentum takes him
sliding down the slope.

INDY is coming up fast on the hole -- horrified by the sight of
the sparkling dot dropping down inside!  

INDY brakes with his hands and comes to a stop at the hole.  

INDY thrusts his arm down through the openning, up to his
shoulder.  

INDY'S HAND frantically moves side-to-side, blindly probing for
the hanging dynamite bundle --

THERE IT IS -- THE DYNAMITE!  INDY'S HAND GRABS IT!

INDY pushes himself up -- THE SPARKLING DOT IS WITHIN A HALF-
SECOND OF IGNITING THE BUNDLE!  

INDY snaps the bundle free from the charred fuse line and hurls it
away with everything he's got!  

The bundle sails out -- over the trench -- and EXPLODES in mid-
air!  

THE WHOLE SLOPE SHUDDERS!


EXT. PERIMETER OF MOUNTAIN - THAT MOMENT 

MARION hears a distant boom, like thunder.  But there's not a
cloud in the sky.  

MARION looks way up the mountain to the peak.  She squints at
something.  What is that?  

It looks like a balloon!  No -- it's a parachute.  And it's 10,000
feet up!


EXT. GRAND SLOPE - THAT MOMENT

After the big explosion there is an uneasy lull of silence.  But
it doesn't last.  

SOUNDS: LIKE A BILLION CRACKLING ICE CUBES.  SEISMIC TREMORS
VIBRATE AND GROAN DEEP BELOW THE ICE.  THE ENTIRE SLOPE BEGINS TO
SHAKE.  SOMETHING CATACLYSMIC IS ABOUT TO HAPPEN.  

INDY watches the ice under his boots start to splinter and
fragment like shattering glass.






INDY, at the hole, shouts down --

					INDY
			BILL!  BILL!

					BILL BELOW
			JONES!  WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT!

					INDY
			LISTEN TO ME!  I GOTTA GET YOU OUT!  BUT
			THERE'S NO ROPE!

					BILL BELOW
			I'VE GOT ONE WITH ME!  

					INDY
			THAT DOESN'T HELP!

At the top of the slope, the crust splits open a foot wide.  A
fault line expands horizontally, reaching out across to the
jutting cliffs which flank the grand slope.   The ice crust which
covers the Ark could crumble away at any second!  

					INDY
			CAN YOU GET IT UP TO ME?

					BILL'S VOICE
			MY LEG IS BROKEN!

INDY chuckles gruffly, he can never get a break.

					INDY
			I NEED THAT ROPE!

INDY snaps rigid, a thought coming to him.

AT THE RIM, INDY reaches down for the scaling line, still anchored
to ledge.  But the instant he does

THE ICE SPLITS UNDERNEATH HIM AND BREAKS AWAY!  The anchored rope
is yanked away from the rim.  

CHUNKS of falling ice snap the bridge line!  

INDY high tails it back up the slope with the ice breaking away
under his feet!

Dropping to the hole --

					INDY
				 (ugly)
			BIIIILL!  GET THAT ROPE UP TO ME NOW OR
			KISS YOUR A --

WHOOSH!  Something shoots up through the hole!  INDY is startled
by it.  He watches it shoot up into the air -- it's a flare!  

Something FALLS from the sky and lands alongside INDY -- it's a
stretch of rope, the end clipped through the eye of a piton.



INDY can barely retain his excitement!

					INDY
			THE ROPE SECURED?

					BILL BELOW
			PULL!  PULL!

INDY digs in his boots and starts to haul BILL up with all his
might!


EXT. PERIMETER OF MOUNTAIN - THAT MOMENT

MARION is watching the parachute as it descends toward a distant
ridge on the horizon.


EXT. GRAND SLOPE - THAT MOMENT

INDY grabs hold of BILL as his shoulders clear the hole.  INDY
pulls hard.  BILL winces at the sharp pain in his leg.

Suddenly, a huge section of ice shifts -- and breaks off just
below the hole!  Immense slabs of ice slide away --

They drop over the rim and crash down into the trench with a sound
like thunder!  

A lower section of the Ark is exposed, clear of its frozen shell.

INDY quickly starts up the disintegrating slope.  He almost has to
carry BILL!  

SLABS OF ICE CONTINUE TO BREAK FREE AND SLIDE AWAY. 

Under INDY'S running boots, the frozen crust is splintering,
opening up, trying to swallow the daring adventurer and his
shouldered burden.

INDY is almost at the top when a huge section of frozen shell
cracks open!  INDY is on that section --

INDY grabs hold of the ice axe dangling from the belt.  The
instant he does, the slab breaks free and starts to slide away
from the summit!  

INDY leaps forward with BILL!  The ice axe in INDY'S hand sinks
deep into the ice on the stable side of fault line!  

The huge chunk of ice slides out from under INDY and BILL.  

Now there is a sheer cliff where the chunk broke away.  INDY and
BILL dangle against the new-formed cliff!  BILL, acting fast, gets
his own ice axe and drives it deep into the lip!   BILL hangs
freely to allow INDY to pull himself up and onto the safety of the
lip.  

INDY helps BILL up to safety now.



The men catch their breath.  BILL looks below where the ancient
Ark rests, almost totally free of its shell.  BILL is captivated
by the awe-inspiring sight.

					BILL
			My God...

					INDY
				 (testily)
			Yeah, it's beautiful.  C'mon!


EXT. PERIMETER OF MOUNTAIN - THAT MOMENT

MARION pulls back hard on the horse's reigns.  The animal whinnies
and halts.  The parachutist drops out of sight behind the distant
ridge.  MARION growls, frustrated.


EXT. JUMPING LEDGE - THAT MOMENT

INDY shoulders BILL along the narrow ledge.  They come to the spot
where VLADIMIROV leaped.  INDY sees the parachute packs on the
shot-dead comrades and makes the connection.

					INDY
			He jumped!  Sonofabitch!

INDY starts to unbuckle the parachute pack from one of the dead
comrades.

					INDY
			The Soviet border is just over that far
			ridge.  That's where he'll set down.

					BILL
			Jones...I'm in no condition to be
			parachuting off a mountain.

					INDY
			I didn't bust my ass to save your life
			so that you could freeze to death up
			here.  

					BILL
			I want to stay with the Ark.

INDY exhales huffily.

					INDY
			Goddamn you, Bill.


EXT. THE ARK - THAT MOMENT

A huge chunk of ice breaks off from above and goes smashing
through the vessel's roof!  The whole frame starts to slide
downward, scraping on the rocks beneath it, making our ears hurt!




EXT. JUMPING RIDGE - THAT MOMENT

INDY cuts off BILL with his hand --

					INDY
			Listen!

There is a deep, powerful rumble!

					BILL
			What is that?


EXT. THE ARK 

as it teeters on the edge; then drops off into the trench.  The
rotted wood vessel is crushed under its own weight!  The
thunderous noise produced vibrates the cliffs!


EXT. A HIGH PEAK   

as the vibrations shake loose a wave of snow and ice!


EXT. JUMPING RIDGE - NIGHT 

A NOISE!  INDY snaps a look up -- and SEES a big wave of snow 
rolling down the cliff face above!  INDY and BILL are about to be
buried --  

INDY grabs BILL around the waist and runs him screaming toward the
edge --

They sail out into open space.  

AND JUST IN TIME -- THE AVALANCHE CRASHES DOWN, BURYING THE LEDGE
UNDER A DRIFT OF ICE AND SNOW!


EXT. PERIMETER OF MOUNTAIN - THAT MOMENT

MARION can hear the distant wails of someone screaming.  She looks
up and sees a black dot against the moon.  Then another, a much
larger dot, expanding like a balloon -- a second parachutist!

MARION spurs on the horse and charges off.  


EXT. THE TRENCH

as tons of snow, rocks and ice flow into the trench and fill it
up.  The shattered pieces of Noah's Ark are sealed away for all
eternity.


EXT. THE NIGHT SKY

BILL clings to INDY for dear life, wailing at the top of his
lungs!  INDY has hold of BILL by his harness, but --  

					INDY
			BILL!  BILL!  I CAN'T STEER HOLDING ONTO
			YOU! 

					BILL
			DON'T LET GO!  I DON'T WANNA DIE!

BILL kicks up with his good leg and wraps it around INDY'S waist. 
INDY grunts painfully.


EXT. THE GROUND BELOW - THAT MOMENT

MARION is keeping up this time.  The parachutist, high up in the
air, is almost directly over her head.


EXT. THE NIGHT SKY

INDY barks --

					INDY
			BILL!  STOP MOVING AROUND!  PUT YOUR
			ARMS THROUGH MY HARNESS.  I GOTTA STEER
			THIS THING OR WE'LL END UP ON THE ROCKS!

BILL isn't listening, too freaked out.  His leg slips off.  He
tries kicking it back up around INDY'S waist.  One too many
attempts tears INDY'S clipped bullwhip free --


EXT. DOWN BELOW - THAT MOMENT

as the BULLWHIP drops in around MARION'S neck, scaring her.	

MARION brings the horse to a stop.  She looks at what fell on 
her: INDY'S BULLWHIP.

					MARION
				 (hopefully)
			Indy?

MARION watches as the parachutist drops out of sight behind the
distant ridge.  

MARION turns her head and sees a moon-washed road about a mile's
distance.

					MARION
			YAH!


EXT. WOODLANDS - THAT MOMENT

VLADIMIROV emerges from the dark woods with ABNER'S limp body
under his arm.   He quickly walks to a sedan hidden in the bushes.






EXT. THE PAVED ROAD - NIGHT

MARION charges up the bank and onto the road.  

MARION pulls on the reigns, halting the horse, in order to read a
road sign: TURKEY\SOVIET BORDER 5 MI.


EXT. A SOVIET BORDER POST - NIGHT 

The Soviet flag flutters in the breeze.  Windows in the guard
house are lit.  The gate arm is lowered and locked in place.


INT. BORDER POST - NIGHT

The TWO SOVIET GUARDS on duty look bored, drinking coffee and
reading the latest issue of Pravda.  The headline is in Russian,
but one english word stands out big and loud: A-BOMB 

Now there is a THUD -- something landing on the roof of the guard
house.  The soldiers start and look up at the ceiling.  

They jump to their feet at the sounds of bootsteps overhead!  

The GUARDS bolt to the door and get it open fast.  But they reel
back at something strange: a large sheet -- no, the parachute --
as it floats in and covers the doorway like a curtain!  The guards
exchange looks.


EXT. PAVED ROAD - NIGHT

MARION brings the horse to a trot, not liking what she sees: up
the road a bit is the Turkish border post.  

MARION growls.


INT. TURKISH BORDER POST - JUST AFTER

The lone TURKISH GUARD is reading a comic book, his back to a
large window which looks out at the gate.  

Suddenly a brown blur flashes by outside, hurdling the gate arm. 
The guard frowns, feeling peculiar.  He looks out the window
behind him, but all appears normal.


EXT. NO MAN'S LAND - JUST AFTER

It is the section of road between the two border posts.  MARION
rides the horse at a full gallop.  She is coming up fast on the
Soviet border gate.  

MARION suddenly SEES INDY -- he's being held at bay by Soviet
guards with automatic rifles.





EXT. SOVIET BORDER POST - THAT MOMENT

INDY is pleading with the guards, speaking RUSSIAN, no doubt
explaining the terrible story about his son's kidnapping.  But the
guards aren't stupid.  GUARD #1 orders the American dog to be
quiet.   BILL is on the ground, withering in pain.  GUARD #2 kicks
BILL, demanding silence and getting it.  He smiles at his comrade,
but finds he is being looked upon scoldingly.

					GUARD #1 (*subtitled*)
			We are not animals.  Control yourself.

GUARD #2 shrugs sheepishly.  INDY starts up again.  GUARD #1 
silences him with a curt finger brought to his mouth.

Suddenly there is the CRACK of a bullwhip!  GUARD #2 reacts
nervously to something like a snake wrapping itself around his
rifle!  He lets go and the gun clatters on the road.  

INDY leaps at Guard #1 and tackles him to the pavement! 

INDY pulls the guard's rifle away and jumps to his feet.  INDY is
more than glad to see --

					INDY
			Marion!

					MARION
			Where's Abner?

INDY points the rifle at the frazzled guards.

					INDY
			We're about to find out.


EXT. VLADIMIROV'S WOODLAND ESTATE - NIGHT  

VLADIMIROV'S sedan races up the driveway --


INT. THE ESTATE - JUST AFTER

VLADIMIROV marches in through the front door, pulling ABNER behind
him.  The boy struggles to free himself.  ABNER is still wearing
the crampons.  The spikes scrap across the marble floor and
scratch it all to hell.

The butler, ALEXANDER, is shocked --

					ALEXANDER 
			Sir!  I've never been one to meddle in 
			your affairs, but please have the boy
			remove the spikes, as they are damaging
			the floor.

VLADIMIROV laughs!

					VLADIMIROV 
			You are a riot, Alexander!

					BUTLER 
			I'm glad you find me so amusing, sir. 
			Also --

Struggling with the boy --

					VLADIMIROV 
				 (pleasantly)
			Something else?
						 
					BUTLER 
			Yes.  A telegram from Premier Stalin
			came.  I put it on your desk in the
			study.

					VLADIMIROV 
			Thank you, Alexander.  That will be all.

A BLACK SCREEN ALL OF A SUDDEN!

Then light spills in as a door opens below us.  The high shot
again, looking down the stone staircase spiralling into the murky
depths.  VLADIMIROV starts down, ABNER kicking and fussing.


INT. SOVIET BORDER/GUARD HOUSE - NIGHT

INDY is getting only resistance from the stubborn guards.

					INDY (*subtitled*)
			Call Stal Andropov!  Secret Police! 
			Now!

The guards stick to their guns, stoned faced, not moving.  INDY
snarls and snatches the rifle away from MARION.  INDY jabs the
barrel against the guard's face and snaps back the bolt!

					INDY (*subtitled*)
			Now!


INT. UNDERGROUND CRYPTIC CHAMBER 

VLADIMIROV walks in and throws ABNER to the floor!  He locks the
heavy wooden door behind him with a large iron key. 

					VLADIMIROV
			Silence!  I have preparations to make!

					ABNER
			I hate you!

					VLADIMIROV
			But in time ... you will worship me.


INT. SOVIET BORDER/GUARD HOUSE - THAT MOMENT

INDY snatches the phone away from Guard #1.



					INDY
				 (into phone)
			Vladimirov has my son!

					ANDROPOV'S VOICE OVER PHONE 
			Yes, Doctor Jones, we are aware of this. 
			Vladimirov has returned to his home with
			your son.

					INDY
			What the hell are you waiting for? 
			Arrest him! 

					ANDROPOV'S VOICE OVER PHONE
			This we cannot do, Doctor.

					INDY
			I'm getting tired of this game!  My
			son's life is at stake!  Does that mean
			anything to you?

					ANDROPOV PHONE VOICE
			Yes.  And the state would more than
			likely assist you under different
			circumstances.  But I am afraid our --
			how do you put it -- our hands are tied
			on this one.  We neglected to inform you
			earlier, but Vladimirov is very good
			friends with Stalin himself.  You can
			understand how rushing blindly into this
			could pose serious political
			complications! 

					INDY
			Damn your politics!  I want my son!

					ANDROPOV'S VOICE OVER PHONE
			Yes.  Very well, Doctor.  I have
			children myself.  The consensus I am
			prepared to make is as follows: the
			state will close all eyes to any actions
			you decide to take, but only for a
			maximum of one hour.  After that time,
			you will be arrested for illegally
			crossing the border and threatening the
			lives of Soviet military men.  These are
			serious charges, Doctor.  I advise that
			you do what you must quickly.

					INDY
			You gotta be kidding!!
	
					ANDROPOV'S VOICE OVER PHONE
			This is no joking matter, Doctor.

					INDY
				 (bitingly sarcastic)
			Guess that's communism for you, huh?



					ANDROPOV'S VOICE OVER PHONE
			Communism works, Doctor.  It will be
			here long after democracy has crumbled.

					INDY
			Just give me the address!

					ANDROPOV'S VOICE OVER PHONE
			Yes.  You agree to the terms, then?

					INDY
			No!  But what choice do I have?

					ANDROPOV'S VOICE OVER PHONE
			I must remind you, Doctor, that if any
			of this conversation is mentioned to
			U.S. authorities, the Kremlin --

					INDY
			Yeah -- the Kremlin will deny 
			everything -- I got that part already! 
			Now give me the goddamn address!


INT. UNDERGROUND ANTI-CHAMBER

VLADIMIROV is in a room off the main worship chamber.  He is
undressing.  He takes off his pants ... something in his pocket.  

VLADIMIROV slides out the DYNAMITE STICK from his pocket.

					VLADIMIROV
				 (grinning with approval)
			You are a crafty one, Doctor Jones.


EXT. WOODLAND ROAD - NIGHT

INDY races along on a motorbike with MARION in the sidecar.


INT. ANTI-CHAMBER

VLADIMIROV, naked, slips into a priestly robe, doing so with
patience; savouring the ritual.


EXT. THE WOODLAND ESTATE

As the commandeered motorbike roars up to the front entrance. 
INDY leaps off the bike, snatching the rifle from the side car. 
MARION starts out  --

					INDY
			Stay here!  Don't argue with me!

He means it.





EXT. THE ESTATE, AROUND BACK - JUST AFTER

INDY creeps up to a window.  He peers in, seeing the plushly
decorated living room, but no signs of VLADIMIROV or ABNER.


INT. THE PLUSH LIVING ROOM - JUST AFTER

INDY opens the window and pokes his head in.  Suddenly, he is
grabbed by the scruff of the neck and yanked through the window
like a rag doll!

INDY crashes to the floor.  

HANDS grab INDY by his jacket and heave him up --

INDY, dazed, looks into the gentle face of ALEXANDER, the estate
butler.  Without saying a word, ALEXANDER hurls INDY over the
couch.  

INDY crashes through the coffee table on the other side!

ALEXANDER takes a moment to adjust a skewed painting on the wall. 

INDY jumps up behind ALEXANDER, ready to let fly with bullets from
the retrieved rifle.  

THE WEAPON EXPLODES IN INDY'S HANDS!

Without turning around --

					ALEXANDER
			Always check your weapon first.  If you
			had, then you would've noticed that the
			barrel was bent.

Who the hell is this guy!

Throwing the useless rifle to the floor --

					INDY
			Where's my son!!

					ALEXANDER
			Playing with the master.

					INDY
			Where?

					ALEXANDER
			As you Americans say: that's for me to
			know and for you to find out.

INDY doesn't like this guy; he charges at him.

ALEXANDER spins gracefully around, thrusting out his hand.  INDY'S
chest takes the full impact!  Eyes popping out, INDY grabs at his
chest and drops to his knees.  ALEXANDER steps around behind INDY.



					ALEXANDER
			It has been fun, sir, but I have some
			chores to attend to.  Goodbye.

ALEXANDER takes INDY by his neck and squeezes hard!  INDY claws at
the butler's pale hands, turning beat red.  

INDY struggles but the butler's grip is inhuman!

INDY is about to pass out.  

At which point MARION runs up and smashes a large vase over the
butler's head!  But, incredibly, it has no affect!  

ALEXANDER continues strangling INDY.

MARION panics.  She grabs what she sees and beats the butler on
the head with everything and anything!  INDY can't take much more
of this -- he's just seconds away from blacking out.  

As a last resort, MARION drives her leg up between the butler's
legs!  This has an affect: the butler lets go and drops to the
floor, not moving.

MARION kneels at INDY'S side.

					MARION
			Oh god -- are you okay?

INDY is trying to catch his breath.

					MARION
			Indiana Jones, you keep telling me to
			stay put -- but you keep needing to be
			rescued!

Staggering to his feet --

					INDY
				 (hoarsely)
			Abner -- he's here.  We gotta find him.


INT. CRYPTIC CHAMBER

VLADIMIROV looks priestly, all decked out in his robe.  He gently
lifts out the skull from a cloth shoulder bag and steps to the
upright casket.  

VLADIMIROV parts the lid and stares up in reverence at the
headless skeleton.

					VLADIMIROV
			Behold Abner...

The little boy is pressed into a corner, weeping, scared.





					VLADIMIROV CONT.
			...a creation 3 millennia in the making. 
			Comprised of some of the world's most
			fearsome men...ruthless...savage
			...decadent men.   

VLADIMIROV points to areas of the skeleton --

					VLADIMIROV CONT
			The feet: Caligula...the legs: Napoleon. 
			Spine: Genghis Khan.  Ribcage: Attila
			The Hun.  Shoulders: Herod.  Arms and
			hands: Hitler.  And the crowning
			glory...

VLADIMIROV sets the skull down on the spine.  The skull stays
magically perched as VLADIMIROV'S hands move away.

					VLADIMIROV
			...the Unclean Son.


INT. FRONT FOYER

INDY and MARION, brandishing broadswords, are ready to search the
house.

					INDY
			I'll look down here.  You check up
			stairs.  Shout if you need me.

					MARION
			Ditto.

MARION runs up the grand staircase.  

INDY is about to move out when he sees something at his feet.

INDY picks up a piece of pointed metal -- A BOOT SPIKE, BROKEN
OFF! 
  
INDY regards the marble floor, gouged and scratched up.


INT. DOOR TO UNDERGROUND CHAMBER - JUST AFTER

INDY has followed the trail of gouges and scratches to this spot. 

INDY suspiciously regards the door before him...


INT. STONE STAIR WELL

INDY starts down the steps, sword brandished, reflexes sharp; he's
ready for anything.







INT. HIGH STONE CORRIDOR

INDY looks at the heavy wooden door at the corridor's end. 
VLADIMIROV'S chanting ECHOES darkly through the corridor.

INDY starts along the underpass, candle light flickering on his
face.  He moves ever so cautiously, eyeing with unease the
humanoid statues which flank him.


AT THE HEAVY DOOR

INDY looks down -- light is flickering out from under the big
door.  

INDY grabs hold of the iron handle and pulls.  The door is locked
solid.  

INDY kneels and peeks through the key hole: ABNER is on the floor,
crying into his hands.  VLADIMIROV is nowhere in sight.

INDY thinks.  A plan starts to surface.  INDY looks up at the tall
statue looming next to him; and then back at the big 
door -- it just might work?


INT. UPSTAIRS BEDROOM

MARION takes a peek inside.  The bedroom is empty.  MARION nudges
the door open, sword at the ready.  

Suddenly, a DARK FIGURE steps in behind MARION!  

MARION senses the presence immediately.  MARION spins around, her
sword coming around fast in both hands --

ALEXANDER reflexively puts up his arm to block what's coming at
him -- AND THE SWORD CHOPS HIS ARM OFF AT THE ELBOW!  

The severed arm flops onto the carpet.  ALEXANDER regards his
bloody stub with mild curiosity.

					MARION
				 (chest heaving)
			What the hell are you!!

					BUTLER
			The butler, madam.

					MARION
			Well pack your bags, pal!  'Cause you
			just got the axe!

At which point MARION pulls the big sword back in both hands and
lets fly -- swoosh!   

ALEXANDER'S head is cut off and it goes spinning through the air!





INT. STONE CORRIDOR

INDY is on top of the statue, about ten feet up.  INDY slides in
behind the head, sets his boots firmly, then works himself into
place, back pressed up against the stone wall.  

INDY'S master plan is revealed:  A QUICK TRACKING SHOT takes us
from INDY'S bullwhip, one end tied to the statue, along the whip's
full length, to the other end where it is tied to the handle of
the big door.

INDY, his back against the wall for leverage, pushes down with
everything he's got.


INT. CRYPTIC CHAMBER

VLADIMIROV'S chanting is affecting the skeleton: it rattles
nosily.  

THEN, HORRIBLY, TENDONS, MUSCLES, ORGANS BEGIN TO TAKE SHAPE,
GROWING, REACHING OUT TO THE BONES.


INT. STONE CORRIDOR

as INDY gives it a big push --

The statue starts to tip off its base!   One more big push and the
statue begins to teeter.  The whip is pulled taut with a 
snap -- and then the big door is yanked right out of its frame as
the statue falls and smashes on the floor!

ABNER looks  --

					ABNER
			Dad!


INT. CHAMBER

as INDY runs in --

					INDY
			Run!  Get out of here!

ABNER scrambles out into the corridor --

INDY spins around expecting VLADIMIROV -- but he's gone.  

INDY sees a closed door and runs to it -- 

INDY doesn't notice the skeleton.  Veins are spreading and 

A HEART THUMPS STRONGLY IN THE CHEST CAVITY!


INT. ANTI-CHAMBER

as the door is kicked open by INDY.  The room is empty.  

INDY spots the STICK OF DYNAMITE on the table. 

INDY rushes in after the stick.  VLADIMIROV drops down from a
ledge over the door and lands on INDY.  The adventurer is sent
crashing into the table!  The dynamite stick is knocked off the
table and it goes skittering across the floor.

VLADIMIROV flips INDY over onto his back.

					VLADIMIROV
				 (spitting mad)
			You evidently haven't seen enough!

					INDY
				 (evenly)
			I've seen plenty!  Enough to know you're
			one sick sonofabitch!

VLADIMIROV hoists INDY up and tosses him clear across the room.  

INDY hits the back wall and lands hard, his face smacking the
floor -- 

INDY sees the stick of dynamite lying near his head.  INDY grabs
it quickly -- but is then hoisted up off the floor again!  

VLADIMIROV pulls INDY in very close.  Their faces are only an inch
apart.

					VLADIMIROV
			You don't know when to give up!

					INDY
			Always been a sore loser!

INDY, we see, has the dynamite stick in his hand.  INDY
surreptitiously makes the fuse real short.  

VLADIMIROV doesn't notice.

					VLADIMIROV
			And lose you will!

Suddenly, INDY pulls free and serves up a walloping left-hook! 
The punch stuns VLADIMIROV -- just long enough for INDY to light
the fuse off a nearby candle!

INDY stuffs the fizzing stick into VLADIMIROV'S robe.

					INDY
			Sorry!  I win!

INDY bolts for the door --


INT. CORRIDOR 

as INDY runs from the chamber --




INT. CHAMBER

as VLADIMIROV, panicing, digs in his robe for the live dynamite
stick.  

VLADIMIROV finds the stick and pulls it out -- the dynamite is
just a second away from detonating.  

VLADIMIROV flings the stick away in a rush to get rid of it!  

At which point the big Russian screams like a woman when he sees
where he has thrown the dynamite stick -- 

The live stick lands with a clunk inside the casket -- JUST AS THE
EYES OF THE UNCLEAN SON SNAP OPEN!


INT. CORRIDOR

KAH-BOOM! -- a huge fire ball shoots through the doorway like fire
from a dragon's mouth!


INT. UPSTAIRS, AT THE DOOR TO UNDERGROUND CHAMBER

as MARION and ABNER react alarmingly to the explosion.  They
freeze at the thought of INDY dead...

Now the big door swings open and 

INDIANA JONES stumbles out!

					ABNER
				 (shaken)
			Is the evil man dead?

					INDY
			Yes.  C'mere!

Father and son hug like there's no tomorrow.

ABNER holds up INDY'S BULLWHIP.  INDY takes it, appreciative.


EXT. THE ESTATE - NIGHT

INDY, MARION and ABNER, their legs feeling like lead, walk to the
parked motorbike.


INT. SUDDENLY WE ARE BACK INSIDE THE ESTATE  

as the big door to the underground chamber slowly opens and
reveals a ghastly VLADIMIROV, his skin burned and charred; his
robe tattered and scorched.






INT. THE STUDY - JUST AFTER

VLADIMIROV staggers over to the desk and collapses unceremoniously
into the chair.  

VLADIMIROV takes a pistol out of the desk drawer.  He points the
gun at his own head.

					VLADIMIROV
				 (a whisper)
			I have failed thee.

VLADIMIROV'S finger starts to pull back on the trigger --

At which point VLADIMIROV notices something on the desk.  

VLADIMIROV puts the gun down.  Our gothic choir mixes up.  

PUSH IN ON A WHITE ENVELOPE RESTING ON THE DESK MATE.  The gothic
choir climaxes, reverberating with the resurrection of Evil.


EXT. THE ESTATE - NIGHT

At the bike --

					INDY
			We got less than fifteen minutes to get
			to the border.  Take any longer and
			we'll be permanent guests of the
			Kremlin.  

CRACK!  A gun shot startles everyone.  Two more follow -- BLAM! 
BLAM!  

INDY looks at the estate.

					INDY
			Wait here.


INT. FOYER - JUST AFTER

INDY enters the estate, heedful, cautious.

AT INDY'S feet is the butler's headless body, pock-marked with
bullets, the legs twitching.


INT. DOOR TO UNDERGROUND CHAMBER - JUST AFTER

The big door is wide open.  INDY looks down at a trail of blood
leading away --


INT. THE STUDY - JUST AFTER

INDY, alert, peeks in.  The room appears to be empty.  The trail
of blood tracks across the room and over to the desk.



Now INDY is at the desk looking at a telegram with VLADIMIROV'S
bloody finger prints on it.  INDY mutters to himself in English
bits of the telegram typed in Russian.

					INDY
			Presence is requested?...important day
			in history?...testing?...

INDY is confused by the telegram.  He looks to the side
contemplatively.

At which point INDY sees a rolled up Pravda.  INDY unrolls the
newspaper and reads out loud in English the headline written in
Russian:

					INDY
			"The A-Bomb Achievement"

Suddenly --

					MARION'S VOICE CRIES OUT
			INDY-Y-Y!


EXT. THE ESTATE - JUST AFTER

INDY runs outside in time to catch the tail-lights of VLADIMIROV'S
sedan as it races away!

					INDY
			No!

					MARION
			Indy!  Over here!

INDY whirls around and is relieved by the sight of MARION and
ABNER safe.

					ABNER
			That was Vladimirov!  You said he was
			dead!

INDY jumps onto the motorbike.

					INDY
			Stay here with Abner!

					MARION
			Stay here -- where the hell are you
			going?!

Firing up the bike --

					INDY
			To drop a bomb on the crazy sonofabitch!

The motorbike peels out!





EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - NIGHT

With THE RAIDERS' MARCH trumpeting on the soundtrack, INDY appears
astride the high speeding motorbike!  Far up the road, INDY can
see the sedan's tail-lights.


EXT. A SOVIET AIR FORCE BASE - NIGHT

Beyond the sentry post and front gate, are hangers,
administration, and officer's quarters.  


INT. OFFICER'S LOUNGE - NIGHT

The SOVIET HIGH BRASS are gathered here in an atmosphere of
patriotic snobbery.  A sturdy built man has his back to us as a
waiter says --

					WAITER 
			Your drink, Comrade Premier.

Soviet Premier, JOSEPH STALIN, turns around and takes his drink. 
He returns to the conversation with HIGH MILITARY BRASS and their
WIVES:

					STALIN 
			As I was saying: The Kremlin
			acknowledges American development and
			deployment of the first A-BOMB.  But it
			was crude and not very reliable.  The
			Soviet A-BOMB is masterfully constructed
			and is sure to be the envy of the
			Americans.

STALIN takes a sip of his champagne.

					A WIFE 
			Comrade Premier?

					STALIN
			Yes, my dear.  And may I say you look
			stunning tonight.  The light generated
			from an atomic explosion does not
			compare to your radiance.

He's gotta be kidding!  The light from a match is more radiant. 
Safe to assume STALIN is feeling the champagne.  The wife smiles,
charmed off her feet.

					STALIN
			Please, what was your question?

					WIFE
			Yes.  Well, about tonight's de --
			deployment?  Is that correct?

					STALIN
			Yes, my dear.



					WIFE
			The deployment...how will this be
			accomplished?

					STALIN
			Good question.  A C-23 Bomber, the pride
			of the Soviet Airforce, will take off
			from here, fly out over the Kara Sea
			about 100 miles and deploy the bomb.

					WIFE
			Over the Kara Sea -- how will we see it?

					STALIN
			Very good.  Beauty and brains!  A fine
			combination.  But in answer to your
			query, a transport will take us to the
			coast where we will have a front row
			seat.  That reminds me: the transport
			should be leaving very shortly.


EXT. SOVIET AIR FORCE BASE - NIGHT

INDY kills the motorbike's engine and coasts to a stop, back about
a hundred feet from the main gate.


EXT. MAIN GATE SENTRY POST - NIGHT

INDY creeps up.  He looks inside the guard house.  On the floor
lies a SENTRY, dead and bleeding.


INT. OFFICER'S LOUNGE - NIGHT

A WAITER interrupts STALIN and his guests --

					WAITER
			Sorry for the interruption, Comrade
			Premier, but Captain Vladimirov wishes
			to speak with you.

					STALIN
			Ah, wonderful.  Where is he?

					WAITER
				 (whispering)
			I believe he is feeling ill.  He is in
			the staff washroom.  I only heard his
			voice coming from a stall, and he
			requested that I fetch you immediately.

					STALIN
			Ah, the man has been celebrating
			already!  Please, excuse me.






INT. STAFF WASHROOM - JUST AFTER

STALIN enters.

					STALIN
			Captain, you have called me away from a
			vision of loveliness.  I hope for your
			sake you are good and ill.  Captain?

>From behind a stall door comes --

					VLADIMIROV'S VOICE
			Comrade Premier, I am over here.

STALIN walks to a nearby stall.

					STALIN
			What is wrong with you?

On that, the stall door is thrown back and the disfigured
VLADIMIROV springs out!  VLADIMIROV puts STALIN in a neck-breaking
choke-hold and shoves a pistol into the Premier's side as an added
incentive.  

VLADIMIROV, we note, is all decked out in his military dress
uniform.

					STALIN
				 (gagging)
			What -- what is the meaning of this,
			Captain?

					VLADIMIROV
			Atonement!


EXT. THE BASE - NIGHT

INDY has commandeered a cap and rain coat from the sentry post. 
He blends in nicely as he searches high and low for VLADIMIROV.


EXT. BETWEEN THE OFFICER'S QUARTERS - NIGHT

VLADIMIROV is forcing STALIN to toward a distant hanger.  Deep
shadows provide excellent cover.

					STALIN
			You will die in a Siberian prison for
			your crimes against the state!

					VLADIMIROV
			I will die, comrade, but not in a
			prison.  After I am through tonight, the
			world will be a different place.

					STALIN
			What are you raving about?



					VLADIMIROV
			When I am through, the Super Powers will
			be at war!


EXT. THE BASE - NIGHT

INDY isn't having much luck -- and it just gets worse:

A SENTRY on a motorcycle rides up.

					BIKE SENTRY
			Comrade, do you have a light?

INDY turns slowly around and faces the sentry.

INDY digs into his pant's pocket and pulls out -- nope -- just a
match.  He lights the sentry's cigarette.

					SENTRY
			Thank you, comrade.
				 (frowning)
			I have not seen you before...

					INDY
			Just transferred.  Yesterday.

					SENTRY
			Yesterday you say.  From where did you
			transfer?

INDY just cornered himself!


INT. A HANGER - NIGHT

A GROUND CREW is busy with final preparations.  The pride of the
Soviet Air Force awaits her confirmation for take off.


INT. COCKPIT OF BOMBER

PILOT and CO-PILOT make final flight instrument checks.


EXT. BACK TO INDY

					SENTRY
				 (suspicious now)
			I will ask you again: where did you
			transfer from?

					INDY
				 (playing dumb)
			Oh, transfer from...yes...now I see.

The sentry makes a face.





INT. THE HANGER

VLADIMIROV peers out, hidden within the shadows.  The bomber's
four propeller-driven engines start up.


EXT. BACK TO INDY

who now hears the engines of a plane somewhere -- that hanger,
just over there.  The sound is coming from that hanger.

					SENTRY
			What is your name?  Or have you
			forgotten that too?

					INDY
			My...name.  My name.  You wanna know my
			name.


INT. THE HANGER

VLADIMIROV, his head down, walks behind STALIN with the pistol
jabbed into the small of the Premier's back.  They move toward the
plane. 

A CREWMAN sees the Premier approaching and snaps to attention.

					CREWMAN
			Comrade Premier!  The plane is ready!

VLADIMIROV fires off a shot!  The crewman drops dead.  The engine
noise muffled the gunshot.


EXT. BACK TO INDY

who did not hear the gunshot, and who is too busy with the 20
questions.  The sentry shuts off the bike and stands.

					SENTRY
			I will report you, comrade!  What is
			your name?  Where did you transfer from?

He reaches for his sidearm.

					INDY
			Transfer from...well, I did transfer
			once...from the downtown to the uptown
			bus.

INDY doesn't wait for a reaction -- and elbows the sentry -- dead
in the face!


INT. COCKPIT OF BOMBER

as the PILOT and CO-PILOT are shot dead!




					STALIN
			You call yourself a Russian?  No Russian
			would shoot his fellow countrymen in
			cold blood!

					VLADIMIROV
				 (manically)
			I'm not Russian -- I'm a Son of
			Darkness!

At which point VLADIMIROV conks STALIN on the head with the butt
of his pistol!  The Premier drops to the cockpit floor, out cold.


EXT. BACK TO INDY

who is dragging the KO'd sentry behind some crates.  The sentry
out of sight, INDY looks out across the apron to the hanger.


EXT. THE HANGER

as the bomber rolls out --

BACK A BIT, INDY watches the plane, not sure why.


INT. COCKPIT

VLADIMIROV is at the controls.

					OVER A SPEAKER
			Red Bear 1, you have not been cleared. 
			Repeat: you have not been --

VLADIMIROV clicks off the speaker.  Suddenly the co-pilot pops up! 

He lunges at VLADIMIROV and the big Russian is thrown forward in
the chair, his hand ramming the throttle stick!


EXT. THE BOMBER

as its engines roar noisily!  

BACK A BIT, INDY snaps a look at the plane.  The big bomber starts
to veer, as if out of control.


INT. COCKPIT

VLADIMIROV and the CO-PILOT are struggling for the pistol.  It
fires accidentally and shoots a hole through the cockpit glass.


EXT. A ZIP PAN

finds INDY.  There's no doubt in his mind now.

INDY leaps onto the sentry's motorbike.


INT. COCKPIT

as VLADIMIROV gets the gun away and unloads it into the meddlesome
CO-PILOT.  

VLADIMIROV, back at the controls, trims the engines.


EXT. BACK TO INDY

who is having trouble getting the bike started!

					INDY
			C'mon!  C'mon!


EXT. THE BOMBER

as its big wheels roll forward --


EXT. THE TAXIWAY - JUST AFTER

The bomber rolls onto the taxiway.  The SOUND of distant sirens
picks up.


EXT. BACK TO INDY

who finally gets the bike started.  INDY looks out across the
airfield and reacts alarmingly to the bomber's takeoff position on
the runway.


INT. COCKPIT

as VLADIMIROV eases the throttle forward --


EXT. BACK TO INDY

who now sees a distant squad of MILITARY VEHICLES racing toward
the bomber.  But it's no comfort.  A glance to the bomber tells us
why --

					INDY
			Too far!  Dammit!

INDY guns the throttle!


EXT. RUNWAY - JUST AFTER

The bomber picks up speed!  

Suddenly INDY drives onto the runway, back about a 100 feet from
the plane.

INDY guns the throttle and the bike pops-a-wheelie.


INT. COCKPIT

VLADIMIROV is intent on the runway ahead.


EXT. FAST MOVING BOMBER

as INDY drives in under the plane's wing and matches the craft's
speed.  

INDY is dangerously close to the plane's spinning tire.

INDY reaches out and grabs hold of the gear strut -- and pulls
himself off the bike!  

The riderless motorbike drops to the rushing ground beneath it and
flips side-over-side, smashing to pieces!

INDY, with much effort, gets his boots up and onto the wheel
cowling --

Suddenly the plane lifts off --


INT. COCKPIT

as VLADIMIROV flicks the landing gear up switch --


EXT. UNDER THE WING

as the hydraulics hum and startle INDY.  The landing gear starts
to fold in.  INDY can do nothing.  

INDY hangs on for dear life ... and disappears up inside the wing.

The covers fold in and seal over the landing gear like a coffin
lid!

The bomber climbs to a high altitude and levels off.


INT. COCKPIT

VLADIMIROV switches on the auto-pilot.  He rises and goes to the
navigator's station.  

VLADIMIROV begins to flip through a binder.  Inside are maps with
latitude and longitude lines.  

VLADIMIROV plots a bombing coarse -- over the Arctic Circle -- and
into the United States!


INT. THE WING

INDY is crammed inside the service duct.  INDY wiggles himself
toward an access panel.  

INDY pushes on the panel but it won't open.


INT. COCKPIT

VLADIMIROV stops plotting a course ... there is a muffled 
sound ... a pounding of some sort, just heard under the hum of the
engines.


INT. THE WING

INDY is punching the panel with his fist.  It warps.  Then snaps
open --


INT. BELLY OF PLANE

INDY pulls himself through the access opening and drops down into
the belly.  The ceiling is quite low; INDY has to squat.

INDY looks for a hatchway overhead and sees one.


INT. THE BOMB BAY

In the floor, the hatchway cracks open a bit and INDY'S eyes pop
up and peer out at the bomb bay -- it's empty.

INDY reaches down to unholster the .45 when suddenly the hatchway
door is thrown back and a HAND reaches down, grabbing INDY by the
scruff.  

INDY is yanked up through the hatchway.

VLADIMIROV tosses INDY aside.  

INDY hits the floor and rolls into a camera tripod -- OUCH!  

There are a half dozen automatic motion picture cameras on
tripods.  Soviet home movies.

Holding a pistol on INDY --

					VLADIMIROV
			Fool!  Did you really think you could
			stop me?!

Getting to his feet --

					INDY
				 (wryly)
			That was the idea.

					VLADIMIROV
			Doctor, Doctor...will you ever learn?

					INDY
			I always did have a problem with
			attention span.  Teachers hated it.




					VLADIMIROV
				 (chuckling)
			Very good, Doctor.  You are a funny man. 
			Even in the face of death.  I applaud
			you.  It is a shame you will miss my
			finest hour.
				 (a thought)
			Ah, but why miss it.  I should strap you
			to a chair...let you watch as I fly this
			plane directly into the Empire State
			building!  Or better: right into your
			living room!  Boston seemed like a nice
			place.  Nice enough, I think, to wipe
			cleanly from the face of the earth!

					INDY
			You'll never get away with it!  The U.S.
			Airforce will be all over this plane
			once you enter --

VLADIMIROV laughs hardily!

					INDY
			I say something funny?

					VLADIMIROV
			Doctor, I'm surprised by your display of
			ignorance.  Obviously atomic science is
			not your specialty.  Let them shoot me
			down.  Once I arm the bomb, it won't
			matter.  Yes, possibly my desired target
			will be missed.  But in the end it will
			be the same result -- World War III!

					INDY
			Why?  

					VLADIMIROV
			Atonement, Doctor.  I will meet my maker
			with a clean conscience.  Can you say as
			much?

					INDY
			Your maker?  I hate to rain on your
			parade, but I doubt very much the All
			Mighty will be thrilled to see you.  

					VLADIMIROV
			Your God, no.  My God, yes.  Are you
			that clueless, Doctor?  What almost
			happened tonight goes beyond simple
			notions of good and evil.  Godkind came
			close to extinction tonight.  Ever so
			close.  
				 (grimacing)
			You have no idea, Doctor.  Yes, this
			world is His....for the time being.  But
			there will come a time.  
					(MORE)


					VLADIMIROV CONT.
			Soon I think.  But for now a planet at
			war...millions dead...millions more
			suffering from fallout....will have to
			do.  Simply put, Doctor: Armageddon will
			have to wait.

					INDY
			You're insane.

					VLADIMIROV
			All the great ones are.
				 (pause)
			On second thought, I don't consider you
			worthy enough for such a front row seat. 
			You should die plainly -- without
			honour!  You should die like a fallen
			animal.  A merciful bullet to the head!
					
VLADIMIROV snaps back the trigger -- CLICK!  The gun's empty!

INDY smirks.

					INDY
			Hasn't been your day!

INDY snaps his hand back to his holstered .45 -- whoops, it's not
there!  VLADIMIROV mockingly smiles.

					VLADIMIROV
			Not yours either.

INDY makes a face.  Then INDY surprises us with the appearance of
his trusty bullwhip!  The whip lashes out.  It misses the 
intended target -- VLADIMIROV -- and wraps itself around the leg
of a camera tripod!

					VLADIMIROV
			You must work on your aim, Doctor.

					INDY
			It's usually pretty good!

					VLADIMIROV
			It must be the pressure.

On that, VLADIMIROV charges at INDY!  

INDY gets out of the way fast and drops down into the bomb 
rack -- his boots slamming down onto the warhead's shell!  

VLADIMIROV halts and smiles grotesquely.

					VLADIMIROV
				 (referring to bomb)
			Beautiful...isn't it, Doctor.  How does
			it feel to be standing on 15 kilotons of
			mastered power?



					INDY
			Why don't you come down here and find
			out for yourself!

					VLADIMIROV CONT.
			Just think how lovely a light it makes. 
			A cloud of fire 900 feet in the air! 
			Though not as hot as Hell, Doctor.  But
			close enough.

					INDY
			Rot in Hell you sonofabitch!

					VLADIMIROV
			I look forward to it.

At which point VLADIMIROV spots something on the floor.  He bends
down and picks up INDY'S .45.

					VLADIMIROV
			Yours?  

INDY rolls his eyes.

					VLADIMIROV
			Are you always this prepared, Doctor?

VLADIMIROV points the gun at INDY and chuckles.

					VLADIMIROV CONT.
			Goodbye, Doctor Jones.  I hope you and
			your God will be happy together.

SUDDENLY HEAVY MACHINE GUN FIRE CUTS IN!  Bullets punch through
the fuselage and rake the bomb bay!


EXT. THE NIGHT SKY

A squadron of SOVIET FIGHTER PLANES is attacking the bomber! 
Their roaring wing canons light up the night sky!


INT. A FIGHTER PLANE'S COCKPIT

Over the PILOT'S radio --

					A VOICE (*subtitled*)
				 (orders)
			Splash the bomber!  Repeat: splash the
			bomber!


INT. BOMB BAY

as VLADIMIROV rushes up inside --

A GUN TURRET!  

VLADIMIROV opens fire on the squadron!

BELOW, INDY is starting to climb out of the bomb rack when raking
bullets force him to duck!  A hydraulic hose ruptures -- hit! 
-- and sprays INDY with fluid!  

The least of his problems, as now the bomb bay doors flop open
from a lose of pressure -- right out from under INDY'S feet!

INDY grabs hold of the first thing he sees -- the handle of the
dangling bullwhip!  INDY starts to fall out, but is stopped by the
whip jerking taut in his hands.  

INDY'S boots are sticking outside the plane, exposed to the
rushing air!  

INDY, hand-over-hand, starts to pull himself back up inside the
bomb rack.  But his weight is starting to bend the tripod leg
which the end of the whip is lassoed to!


UP INSIDE THE GUN TURRET

VLADIMIROV is having a great old time.  He fires wildly at the
swooping planes.


EXT. NIGHT SKY

as VLADIMIROV'S fire takes out a fighter plane -- KAH-BOOM!


INT. BOMB BAY

Suddenly, the tripod snaps free from its anchors and topples over! 
INDY drops -- right out into space --


EXT. THE BOMBER

as INDY, clutching the whip in a deathgrip, is slammed up against
the underside of the fuselage by the force of rushing air!


INT. BOMB BAY

The tripod gets pulled down into the bomb rack where it gets
lodged in the framework!


EXT. UNDERSIDE OF PLANE

The whip no longer taut, INDY is pushed by the rushing air and
slides backwards, his stomach pressed up against the underside of
the plane!  But he only goes a few feet, then is jerked to a stop
as the whip snaps taut again.


INT. BOMB BAY

STALIN revives slowly and staggers to his feet.  He cringes at the
sound of machine fire!


INT. COCKPIT OF BOMBER

STALIN gets on the radio --


EXT. UNDERSIDE OF BOMBER

INDY, hand-over-hand on the whip, struggles against the powerful
rush of air and pulls himself along, trying to get back to the
bomb bay --


INT.  COCKPIT

STALIN barks into the radio -- 

					STALIN (*subtitled*)
			Call off the planes!


INT. COCKPIT OF FIGHTER PLANE

As the order comes to 

					RADIO VOICE (*subtitled*)
			Abort!  Abort!  Comrade Premier is on
			board the bomber!


EXT. THE SKY

as the squadron ceases firing immediately.


INT. GUN TURRET

VLADIMIROV shouts triumphantly at the squadron banking away and
flying off!


INT. BOMB BAY

VLADIMIROV drops down from inside the gun turret and finds himself
at gun point!

					STALIN
			Enough, Captain!

At which point VLADIMIROV runs to the bomber's station!  STALIN
fires!  VLADIMIROV is hit in the side, but he remains on his feet. 
VLADIMIROV fights the pain as he reaches out and 

ARMS THE WARHEAD.  

STALIN fires repeatedly.  VLADIMIROV takes each slug with a sneer.

					VLADIMIROV
			Bombs away!



At which point VLADIMIROV pulls up the bomb release handle and
jumps down onto the warhead -- just as it is deployed!


EXT. UNDERSIDE OF BOMBER

as VLADIMIROV, clinging to the warhead, drops out into open 
air -- right past INDY who's eyes widen at the sight of VLADIMIROV
grinning at him!

VLADIMIROV waves manically as the bomb falls away.

					VLADIMIROV
			Long live the Sons of
			Darkneeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeess!

ON THE FALLING BOMB WITH VLADIMIROV  -- THE SKY ZOOMS BY.

VLADIMIROV works himself around so as to face the --

dark ocean below.  The waters rise up, getting closer and closer
with each passing second!

					VLADIMIROV
				 (under his breath)
			I'm coming home.

Suddenly the OCEAN is right in our faces!

A BLINDING LIGHT WHITES OUT THE SCREEN!

INDY, still pressed up against the underside of the plane, snaps
his eyes shut.  Light -- as bright as the sun -- floods him
momentarily.

BELOW, AN ENORMOUS MUSHROOM CLOUD RISES HIGH INTO THE SKY!  THE
BLAST WAVE EXPANDS OUT OVER THE OCEAN AND INSTANTLY VAPORISES
ICEBERGS THE SIZE OF BUILDINGS!


INT. BOMB RACK

INDY reaches in and gets hold of a strut.  He starts to heave
himself up when 

STALIN reaches in and offers his hand.

					STALIN
			Take my hand!

INDY takes STALIN'S hand.


INT. COCKPIT - JUST AFTER

INDY and STALIN stagger in.  STALIN, exhausted, takes a seat in
the pilot's seat.  INDY, his body aching, eases into the co-
pilot's seat.



					STALIN
			I won't ask how you got here.

					INDY
			Good.
				 (weakly)
			Can you land this thing?

					STALIN
			Certainly.

					INDY
			Good.  'Cause I can't.

STALIN takes the controls.  

					STALIN
			You tried to stop him.  Didn't you?

					INDY
			Tried to.

					STALIN
			Very bold.

					INDY
			Very stupid.

					STALIN
			Just the same, my country is grateful. 
			Your show of courage deserves a reward. 
			Anything you want.  It is yours.

					INDY
			Anything, huh?  How about abolishing the
			communist party and giving democracy a
			chance?

STALIN gives INDY a look.

					INDY
			No.  Then how about a first class ticket
			back home?    

					STALIN
			Gladly.

					INDY
			Better make that four tickets.

					STALIN
			Ah, for your girlfriends, no doubt.

					INDY
			No ... for my family ... and one major
			pain in the ass.






EXT. THE SKY

The bomber gently banks and flies away into the rising sun.

									DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. ISTANBUL AIRPORT - DAY

INDY, MARION, ABNER, BILL AND SALLAH.  BILL'S leg is in a cast and
he stands on crutches.

					INDY
			Sallah, I can't thank you enough.

					SALLAH
			My pleasure, Indy.  I am happy that you
			and your family are reunited.

MARION kisses Sallah.

					MARION
			You're a saint, Sallah.  A angel sent
			from heaven.
				 
					SALLAH
				 (moved)
			Thank you, Marion.  My love to you all. 
			Especially you, little Indy.

Sallah ruffles ABNER'S hair.

					ABNER
				 (smiling)
			Bye, Sallah.

Sallah walks away, singing, arms pumping to the rhythm.

					SALLAH
			Aaa British tar is a soaring soul as
			free as a mountain bird...his energetic
			fist should be ready to resist...

Sallah's singing fades.

					ABNER
			Can we go home now?

Both INDY and MARION give ABNER an incredulous look.

					BILL
			Yes...please.

					INDY
			After you, William.

					BILL
			Bill, will do.



					INDY
			Fine, Bill...after you.

					BILL
			May I call you, Henry.

					INDY
			We'll talk about it.

									DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. A VERMONT ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - DAY

Establish the quaint little school, as over we hear:

					THE PRINCIPLE'S VOICE
			And this year's bible-class grand 
			prize winner, a trip to Jerusalem, goes
			to -- 


INT. SCHOOL GYMNASIUM - DAY

The school PRINCIPLE is at a podium before a large assembly made
up of KIDS and PARENTS.  A big bible-class contest banner hangs
from the rafters.  Display cubicles number in the dozens.

					PRINCIPLE CONT.
			-- Mark Graham.

The crowd applauds.  But there is one among them that 
does not ... ABNER.


EXT. THE SCHOOL - SOON AFTER

INDY, MARION and a glum looking ABNER, stroll along the cement
pathway.

					MARION
			Hey, don't look so glum.  You won third
			prize -- that's better than nothing!

					ABNER
			Bet if I had a piece of the Ark I would
			of come in first!

Mention of the Ark brings back unpleasant memories for all.  After
a beat:

					MARION
				 (changing the subject)
			Hey, whadda you guys say we eat out
			tonight and catch a movie.  "Treasure of
			Sierra Madre" is supposed to be pretty
			good.




					ABNER
				 (beaming)
			Treasure!

					MARION
				 (having second thoughts)
			Maybe not that one.

					INDY
				 (to himself)
			It's gonna take some getting use to.

					MARION
				 (over hearing him)
			And what's that, pray tell?

INDY snuggles up close to MARION and smiles.

					INDY
			Home cooked meals...Saturday morning
			catch....report cards....first date.

					MARION
				 (feeling naughty)
			Something else you'll have to get use
			to...

					INDY
			And what's that, pray tell?

					MARION
			The long, hot, passionate nights.

MARION and INDY kiss, long and deep.  They break.  

					MARION
			So, Kiddo --

MARION almost screams -- ABNER is gone!

					INDY
			Don't panic!  He's gotta be around here
			some place!

They scan the school grounds.

					INDY
			Maybe he's at the playground!

A few tension filled moments.  Then:

					ABNER'S VOICE
			Hey!

ABNER runs up with his popsicle stick Ark in hand.

					MARION
			Abner!  I'm gonna put a leash on you!

ABNER shoots his mom a sarcastic look.

					INDY
			Why'd you go back for your model?

					ABNER
			I don't know...guess this Ark's better
			than no Ark.

					INDY
			They might uncover it again someday.

The idea of that sits pleasantly on the minds of ABNER and INDY. 
MARION, on the other hand, not so pleasant.

					INDY CONT.
			The man to uncover it might just be you.

MARION shoots INDY a stern look.

					INDY CONT.
			Or maybe not.

					MARION
			Mister, the only thing I want you
			digging up are the weeds in the
			backyard.

					ABNER
			Aw ma!

					MARION
			You promised to do it weeks ago.

Whispering up at INDY conspiratorially --

					ABNER
			And she wonders why I ran away.

					MARION
				 (hearing that)
			You didn't run away.

					ABNER
			Yeah....that's true...I went looking for
			my dad.

					INDY
			And you found him.

					ABNER
			Happy I did?

INDY doesn't have to think about that.

					INDY
			You betcha.

INDY smiles.  

ABNER takes his mom's hand and -- ah --


					ABNER
			Here, hold this.

INDY takes the Ark model from ABNER.  The boy's hands are free. 
ABNER takes his mom's hand and his father's hand.

					ABNER
			Mom, dad, let's go eat.

JUMP BACK: the united family walk away together, hand-in-hand,
headed off on another big adventure.

The one called life.   


RAIDERS' MARCH UP.  ROLL END CREDITS.










THOUGHT IT WAS OVER, DIDN'T YA?

THE FANS WHO HUNG AROUND FOR THE END CREDITS GET A SPECIAL TREAT:


INT. INDY'S HOUSE - FRONT DOOR - SUNDOWN

Someone is KNOCKING.  INDY opens the front door and reveals

GENERAL DOUGLAS MACARTHUR AND HIS ENTOURAGE.

					INDY
			General, what a pleasant surprise.

Pause.

					GENERAL MACARTHUR
			Henry, you gonna invite us in or are we
			gonna stand out here all day.

					INDY
			Please, please -- c'mon in.

INDY shouts over his shoulder --

					INDY
			Marion, set down three more plates.  We
			got guests for dinner.

CUT TO BLACK SCREEN.
	

					THE END

