


		THE MESSENGER: THE STORY OF JOAN OF ARC






					    by

				   Andrew Birkin

					    and

					Luc Besson
























FADE IN:

EXT.  CHURCH - DOMREMY - DAY

FADE UP on ripples on the surface of a puddle.  Slow PAN
UP:  the water becomes placid, and in it we see the
reflection of an inverted CROSS on the top of a small
church.  We move across the little churchyard and in
through the open doors.


INT.  CHURCH - DOMREMY - DAY

Utter simplicity -- stone walls, rough-hewn wooden
benches, primitive saints in the stained-glass windows --
chickens peck among the straw that covers the earthen
floor.


INT.  CONFESSIONAL BOX - CHURCH - DAY

A little wooden grill slides open and the friendly face of
the village PRIEST peers at us.  He glances about,
perplexed.

					PRIEST
		Is anybody there?

A small hand appears -- then the face of a girl aged about
10, peering up at him through the grill.  The Priest
smiles a trifle wearily.

					PRIEST
		You know I'm always happy to see
		you, Jeanne, but to keep coming here
		twice, three times a day...

					JEANNE
		I need to confess.

					PRIEST
		But you already confessed this
		morning...

					JEANNE
		I need to confess again.

					PRIEST
		So... alright.  What terrible sin
		have you committed since then that
		can't wait till tomorrow to be
		forgiven?

Jeanne climbs up on the prayer-stool to be tall enough to
look the Priest in the eye.

					JEANNE
		I saw a poor monk without shoes so I
		gave him some.

					PRIEST
		There's no sin in charity, Jeanne.

					JEANNE
		They weren't my shoes.  Mine were
		too small.

					PRIEST
		Whose were they?

					JEANNE
		My father's.

					PRIEST
		I'm sure he'll forgive you.

					JEANNE
		He already did, but I want God to
		forgive me too.

					PRIEST
		Jeanne -- if we were to ask
		forgiveness all the time, we'd spend
		our whole life in church.

					JEANNE
		Is that bad?

					PRIEST
			   (perplexed)
		Well no, but... Jeanne, are you
		happy at home?

					JEANNE
		Oh yes... very.

					PRIEST
		And your mother -- everything's fine
		with her?

					JEANNE
		Oh yes, she's... wonderful.

FLASH:  we see Jeanne's peasant MOTHER, sitting by the
fire, sewing.  Their home is little more than a hovel -- a
low, dark cave of a place, traversed by a huge beam.

					PRIEST
		Good, good.  And your sister...
		Catherine -- she's still your best
		friend?

					JEANNE
		Oh yes, my sister's just... she's...
		wonderful.

FLASH:  Jeanne's sister CATHERINE (18) sits near her
mother, spinning wool.

					PRIEST
		And what about your other friends...
		you don't like playing with them?

					JEANNE
		Oh yes, I play with them... lots...

FLASH:  Jeanne is battling against some reeds with a
wooden stick under a full noonday sun.  Not far away, a
group of kids are in the shadow of a huge tree, playing.
One of them watches Jeanne in the distance.

					KID #1
		What's she doing?

					KID #2
		Playing.

Resume on the Priest.

					PRIEST
		So... everything sounds...
		wonderful?

					JEANNE
		Yes, it is.

					PRIEST
		Then... why are you here so often?

					JEANNE
		I feel safe here.  And it's where I
		can talk to him.

					PRIEST
		Him?

					JEANNE
		Well, I try and talk to him, but
		mostly he's the one who does the
		talking.

					PRIEST
		Who is this "he"?

					JEANNE
		He never says his name.

					PRIEST
		What... does he... look like?

FLASH:  a little boy of 8, sitting on a throne in a
clearing in a wood.

					JEANNE
		Beautiful.

					PRIEST
		And what does he say to you?

FLASH:  the Boy points solemnly at us, but says nothing.

					JEANNE
		He says... he says I must be good...
		and help everyone... and take care
		of myself.  Do you think he's coming
		from the sky?

					PRIEST
		Perhaps... but wherever he comes
		from, I think you should listen to
		him, because it sounds like he's
		giving you very good advice.

The Priest smiles, and Jeanne beams back at him.  He
blesses her...

					PRIEST
		Ego te absolvo, in nomine Patris, et
		Filii, et Spiritus Sancti, Amen.


EXT.  CHURCH & STREAM - DAY

Jeanne runs from the little church, the weight of her sins
now happily off her shoulders.  Her reflection skips
across a little stream, then on through a meadow of
cowslips and buttercups and up the sloping hillside
beyond...


EXT.  MEADOW & WOOD - DUSK

A hazy, summer dusk -- pollen floating in the shimmering
air... Jeanne swirls between the high elms, happy and
carefree -- it's all a little surreal -- are those church
bells in the distance?  Or cow bells?  Or merely the SOUND
of insects?

Jeanne swings round faster and faster, then tumbles over,
laughing, and lies on her back.  She's dizzy and out of
breath.  Above her, the clouds seeming to swirl as though
she were still spinning round...

The SOUND of the bells slows down, deepening... Her face
moves into shadow.  Although not distinguishable as words
at this stage, there's an urgent whisper in the wind... a
strange echo that will eventually resolve into a call
"Jeanne...!"

Presently Jeanne turns and sees something glinting in the
long grass.  A SWORD.  The background SOUND of the bells
grows ominous.  A shooting star silently flashes across
the sky -- then scores of them.  She gets to her feet and
picks up the heavy sword.  It's growing darker -- colder
-- the leaves have turned to autumn brown, now blown about
by a gust of wind.

Presently she sees a WOLF approaching, slowly but straight
toward her -- then two, three -- finally the whole pack.
She grips the sword, but can't use it -- too heavy, too
frightened.  As the wolves approach, she closes her
eyes...

The wolves pass either side of her, as though oblivious to
her presence.  When she opens her eyes, they have passed,
and are now heading along the forest track.


EXT.  FOREST - NIGHT

Jeanne follows the wolves along the track.  They're
heading toward a red glow, visible beyond the trees.  The
wolves disappear over a ridge, though all we can see for
the moment is the red sky beyond.  But as Jeanne reaches
the edge, we move up with her to see...

... her village in the valley below, ablaze.


EXT.  DOMREMY VILLAGE - NIGHT

Panic -- screams -- crashing timbers -- animals stampeding
-- wolves drag corpses from gutted buildings -- and
through the midst of the tumult tears Jeanne, still
dragging the sword she found.  She runs inside a farm
cottage...


INT.  JEANNE'S HOME - NIGHT

The low, dark building we saw earlier -- now empty, lit by
the fires of the houses on the far side of the street.
Jeanne runs in, searching about --

					JEANNE
		Mother...?

No response.  She begins to panic -- runs through into a
smaller room beyond, calling out --

					JEANNE
		Catherine?!

Suddenly a door swings open and a hand reaches out --
Jeanne screams, then turns to see her elder sister,
CATHERINE, who's been hiding in a cupboard...

					CATHERINE
		Jeanne!

Catherine embraces her, hugging her in relief --

					CATHERINE
		Are you alright?  Did they hurt you?

					JEANNE
		No no, I'm fine, really...

					CATHERINE
		I was so worried -- we've all been
		looking for you!  The English are
		everywhere!  O thank you, lord!

She hugs her again -- then freezes, hearing the SOUND of
horses, the clanking of armor.  But Jeanne hasn't heard...

					JEANNE
		I was in church...

Catherine glances about, ears tuned...

					CATHERINE
		Really?

					JEANNE
		I was talking to the priest, and do
		you know what he said to me?

Catherine puts her hand across Jeanne's mouth --

					CATHERINE
		Shhh... tell me later...

She hears the drunken laughter getting closer...

					CATHERINE
		Quick -- hide in here...

					JEANNE
		What about you?

					CATHERINE
		Don't worry about me -- just stay in
		here... and don't move!

					JEANNE
		But where are you going to be?

					CATHERINE
		I'll be right here... I promise.

Catherine quickly lifts Jeanne inside the cupboard, locks
the door, then turns to confront THREE hefty ruffians
calling themselves soldiers.  The biggest and ugliest has
a jet black beard.

					BLACKBEARD
		Now that's what I call booty!

Blackbeard turns back to his comrades, who are sharing out
a roast chicken between them.  Catherine picks up the
sword dropped by Jeanne as Blackbeard swaggers up to
her...

					BLACKBEARD
		A woman with a sword?
			   (to his comrades)
		Hey, take a look at this --
		Frenchmen are such cowards that
		they've left all the fighting to
		women!

					CATHERINE
		If that's God's will, then so be it!

Blackbeard's comrades start tucking into their food,
leaving Blackbeard to his pleasure.

					BLACKBEARD
		Fine with me.  I love women.

He undoes his buckle.  From her POV behind the cupboard
door, Jeanne can just about see Blackbeard's face through
a crack.  Catherine raises the heavy sword as Blackbeard
advances, then brings it sweeping down.  But he intercepts
it effortlessly, grasping the blade as though it were a
twig...

					BLACKBEARD
		Oh... now you've hurt my feeling...

He puts his hand around her throat, rips off her little
wooden cross, pins her against the door, then, with a
lecherous roar, plunges his face on her...

Jeanne is terrified.  Blackbeard has his tunic down and is
attempting to gain entry -- Catherine tries to scream --
he slams his hand over her mouth -- she bites it --
Blackbeard howls... with laughter.  Now his juices are
really moving.  Catherine squirms against the door,
twisting and turning --

					BLACKBEARD
		Hold still, bitch.  How can I do it
		if you keep wriggling about?

He picks her up by the throat, lifts her clear off the
floor by several inches, then rams the sword clean through
her gut and the door behind her, the blade just missing
Jeanne.

					BLACKBEARD
		There, that's better.

With a grin at his comrades, Blackbeard resumes his
intercourse with the lifeless Catherine.  Behind the door,
Jeanne is suffocating with terror.

The little wooden necklace lies on the floor in f.g. as
Blackbeard pulls up his pants and turns to his comrades --

					BLACKBEARD
		Your turn.


EXT.  CHURCHYARD - VILLAGE - DAY

The little village church is no more than a smoldering
pile of rubble -- among it, the twisted stained-glass of
an angel.  Corpses are piled up alongside a warren of
shallow graves, awaiting committal.  The Priest passes by
each grave in turn, administering hasty last rites, then
moving onto the next while a harassed grave-digger fills
in the last.

Jeanne stands by a shallow grave, now wearing her sister's
wooden cross and grazing fixedly at her body, wrapped in
linen and awaiting interment.  Her parents and other
adults stand nearby, but at Jeanne's level we only see
them from the waist down.

					MAN #1 (O.S.)
		We shouldn't be doing this by
		daylight... it's too dangerous.

					MAN #2 (O.S.)
		You're right -- the English are
		still around -- I can smell them...

					MAN #3 (O.S.)
		When is the king going to do
		something?

					MAN #1 (O.S.)
		He's good for nothing...

					MAN #2 (O.S.)
		Yeah... we can't even be sure he
		really is a king...
			   (whispering)
		I heard someone say he's a
		bastard...

					MAN #1 (O.S.)
		With a mother like that?  I wouldn't
		be surprised... she's such a
		whore...

					WOMAN (O.S.)
		Can you show some respect?  We're
		burying our children.  You should be
		praying instead of cursing...

					MAN #2 (O.S.)
		That's just about all we can do.

					WOMAN (O.S.)
		Yes... because only God can help us.

Now the Priest scurries over, hurriedly mumbles the last
rites in Latin, then moves on to the next grave.  Jeanne's
family have their eyes closed in prayer, and it is only
Jeanne who sees the Grave-digger nudge the corpse into the
shallow grave with his foot.  He shovels in the earth,
then moves on.  The Father puts his hand on her shoulder.

					FATHER
		Listen, Jeanne... your Uncle and
		Aunt are taking you to their house
		for a few weeks... just to give us
		time to rebuild what we can.

Jeanne looks at him blankly, her thoughts too deep for
tears.


EXT.  VILLAGE & ROAD - DAY

Jeanne sits on the back of a small hay-wagon.  Her Uncle
and Aunt are up front, eyes on the barren, devastated
countryside ahead, while Jeanne gazes fixedly on the road
behind.  From her POV:  the receding figures of her
parents, gradually merging with the dusty landscape.


INT.  DAXART'S HOUSE - NIGHT

A large, low room, almost identical to Jeanne's house:  a
bare, earthen floor with chickens running about, and a
huge cave of a fireplace.  The Aunt doles out soup from a
cauldron -- first to her husband, then to Jeanne.

					DAXART
		Lord, we give thanks for the food
		you have given us.  Teach us always
		to love this land, and to save it
		from those who seek to destroy it.
		Amen.

Jeanne says nothing -- noted by Daxart.  His wife nudges
him with a gesture to let her be.


INT.  DAXART ATTIC - NIGHT

Daxart opens the door to an attic room, his wife standing
behind him with Jeanne.  She wanders into the room, tidy
but sparse, and sits on the edge of the bed.  Daxart looks
a little put out.

					DAXART
		So... good night then.

The Aunt understands Jeanne better than her husband, and
leads him from the room.


INT.  SLEEPING QUARTERS - NIGHT

The Daxarts share the communal sleeping area with a couple
of goats and a mangy dog.  Daxart is settling down to
sleep, but his wife lies awake.

					AUNT
		What's going to happen to her?

					DAXART
		She'll be fine.  She'll grow up...
		find a good man... make him some
		children.  Don't worry -- she's been
		hurt, but she'll survive.  Tomorrow
		she'll be as right as rain, you'll
		see.


INT.  DAXART ATTIC - DAY

Daxart opens the door to the attic.  Jeanne has not moved:
she's still sitting on the bed like the day before.

					JEANNE
		I want to see a priest.


INT.  VILLAGE CHURCH - DAY

Christ, crucified in stained glass.  A silver cup is
raised in blessing...

The local PRIEST, much older than the one at Domremy,
lowers the cup, filled with wine in preparation for the
Mass.  The Daxarts enter the church at the far end, with
Jeanne between them.  The Priest is expecting her.


INT.  CONFESSIONAL BOX - DAY

Jeanne sits in the shielded darkness of the confessional
box.  She clutches at her little wooden cross and at last
begins to cry.

					PRIEST
		I heard about your sister, and I...
		understand your pain...

					JEANNE
		Why did she have to die?

					PRIEST
		Only God knows the answer to that.

					JEANNE
		I know Jesus says to love our
		enemies but I can't -- I just want
		the English to burn in hell for ever
		and ever!

					PRIEST
		I realize your anger, Jeanne, but we
		must learn to forgive.  It's hard,
		but revenge will never bring about
		peace.

					JEANNE
		Then what will?  And what will bring
		her back?  And why did she have to
		die in the first place instead of
		me?  Why didn't he take my life
		instead of hers?  It was my fault --
		I was late -- she gave me her hiding
		place...!!

					PRIEST
		Jeanne... calm down...!  Calm down,
		Jeanne!

Jeanne breaks off, trembling, tears pouring down her
cheeks.

					PRIEST
		I don't pretend to know God's will,
		but I am sure of one thing -- the
		Lord always has a good reason.
		Perhaps he saved you because he
		needs you... for some higher
		calling.  So... as long as you
		answer that call, your sister will
		not have died in vain.

Jeanne clams down.  She stares at the Priest for a long
moment, and her look becomes very deep and intense.

					JEANNE
		I don't want to wait for his call.

					PRIEST
		Jeanne, be patient.

					JEANNE
		I want to be with him always...

					PRIEST
		Soon you'll be able to take the Holy
		Mass, and as you eat of his flesh
		and drink of his blood, you will be
		at one with him.

					JEANNE
		I want to be at one with Him now.


EXT.  COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

On the open road, with Jeanne sitting on the back of
Daxart's wagon.  It's a grey, lowering, dismal sort of
day.  The Daxarts are up front, talking in low voices.

					DAXART
		What did he say?

					AUNT
		He says we must bring her to church
		whenever she wants.

					DAXART
		Hmmm... easy for him -- he's not the
		one that has to do the bringing.

Behind them, the wagon is empty.  Jeanne is long gone.


EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

The rain pours down in torrents -- Jeanne runs...


EXT.  VILLAGE - DAY

... down the deserted road -- into the church...


INT.  VILLAGE CHURCH - DAY

... and up the aisle to the altar.  She grabs a jug of
wine, pours some into the chalice -- holds it up high as
the Priest did, then gulps it down.  The wine cascades
from her mouth like blood as she gazes up at the stained
glass image --

					JEANNE
		I want to be with you now!


INT.  DAXART HOUSE - DAWN

Daxart sits bolt upright, awaking from a nightmare.  It's
early morning, his wife still asleep beyond him.


INT./ EXT.  DAXART ATTIC/POV OF FIELD - DAWN

Daxart opens the door to Jeanne's room.  Empty, the bed
unslept in.  He walks in -- hears something.  Looking out
of the window he sees --

Jeanne in the distance, playing be herself.  Daxart
smiles.


EXT.  HOUSE & FIELD - DAWN

Jeanne pauses, her stick poised in mid-air --


SUBLIMINAL FLASH --

-- a real sword impales a soldier through the stomach --
another sword slices through chain-mail -- and a severed
head encased in metal spins lose from armored shoulders...


EXT.  HOUSE & FIELD - DAWN

Jeanne looks at Daxart.

					JEANNE
		I'm playing.

Once again Jeanne raises her stick-sword -- the head of a
sunflower is violently decapitated --


INT.  CHINON - STATE ROOM - DAY

-- and a sword swishes down, trying to hack someone in the
leg.  But it is only a wooden sword, and its wielder a
mere boy of five.  This is young Prince LOUIS, practicing
his nascent swordsmanship on the castle GUARDS.

VOICES and approaching footsteps alert the Guards, who
quickly stand to attention as a door is swung open...

					GUARD
		The Dauphin!

Louis takes advantage of the Guards forced immobility, and
jabs one of them in the leg... he lets out a muffled "Ow!"

The Dauphin CHARLES VII enters, followed by his courtiers.
They include the bloated REGNAULT, Archbishop of Rheims,
and Georges de la TREMOILLE -- a sly and devious diplomat.

					CHARLES
		Louis, shouldn't you be learning
		your lessons?

					LOUIS
		I don't want to learn, I want to
		fight!

					CHARLES
		You will, you will.  But for now,
		you must learn... at least to wipe
		your nose.

Charles (who speaks with a slight stutter) affectionately
wipes his son's nose with a corner of his shirt.  Beyond
them, a young soldier, Jean d'AULON, arrives with a
scroll.

					AULON
		A letter for His Majesty.

Tremoille takes it, opens the seal and begins to read.
Charles hands over Louis to a courtier...

					TREMOILLE
		Another one from this girl calling
		herself the Maiden of Lorraine.

Charles snatches it somewhat testily from Tremoille...

					CHARLES
		I can read for myself, you know.

While Charles reads, Tremoille turns aside to Regnault --

					TREMOILLE
		She pretends she's been sent by God!
		These charlatans -- it's a pity
		there isn't enough wood to burn them
		all!

					CHARLES
		She says she'll be here tomorrow...!

					TREMOILLE
		You mustn't see her, my lord.  We
		know nothing about her... we don't
		even know if she is from Lorraine.

					CHARLES
		What difference does it make where
		she comes from?

					TREMOILLE
		If she comes from Burgundy it makes
		a difference.  It might be a trap...
			   (takes back letter)
		Look... Signed "X".  What sort of
		name is "X"?  Or must we conclude
		that a messenger of God can't even
		write her own name?

					REGNAULT
		My lord Tremoille is correct.  She
		says she hears voices... she may be
		a sorceress... a witch...

					CHARLES
			   (snatching back
			    letter)
		Regnault -- you see witches
		everywhere.  She's just a peasant...
		a peasant who cares for her king.
		Look... all she wants is to help me
		win my crown... and permission to
		fight for me.

					TREMOILLE
		Not exactly.
			   (takes back letter)
		She wants you to give her an army --
		at your expanse.  Bearing in mind
		that your mother stole every last
		piece of gold in the treasury, I
		fail to see how you can afford such
		an adventure.

					CHARLES
			   (snatches back
			    letter)
		I can see her if I want to.  I mean,
		with half of France in the hands of
		the English, what have I got to
		lose?

					TREMOILLE
		The other half.

					REGNAULT
		You mustn't see her, my lord.  She
		may be an instrument of the devil.

					YOLANDE (O.S.)
		Well... I think you should.

All eyes turn to the window, where Yolande has been
standing with her back to the room, reading a little book.
Her right-arm is standing beside her -- RICHMOND, his face
hideously disfigured by battle scars.

					CHARLES
		Ah, Yolande... and what makes you
		think the exact opposite of my two
		most trusted advisors?

Yolande smiles, though hardly a devoted smile.  Mild
contempt would be more accurate.

					YOLANDE
		Because I care about you.  Come here.

Charles walks over.  He has his shirt undone.  Yolande
buttons it back up.

					YOLANDE
		Your health and happiness has always
		been my first concern, Charles...
		ever since you were a little boy --
		and I think I know you better than
		your own mother...

					CHARLES
		You think?

					YOLANDE
		Mmmm.  Yes.  I know for example the
		sickness that plagues your heart.  I
		know how painful it is for you... to
		have loved a father... without ever
		knowing if he really was yours.

					CHARLES
		W-w-what has that got to do with
		this Maiden?

					YOLANDE
		Who better than a messenger from God
		to give answers to your questions?

					CHARLES
		You really think she's been sent...
		by God?

					YOLANDE
		You're a fine judge of character,
		Charles.  It'll take you less than
		five minutes to expose her if she's
		a fake.  But if she's not -- then
		she will give you your answers...
		and place the crown on your head.

Charles shines at the prospect, but Tremoille and Regnault
look less than happy.

					TREMOILLE
		With respect, my lady, I think it's
		going to take more than just a
		simple peasant girl to...

					YOLANDE
		I'm not interested in what you
		think, Tremoille -- or even what I
		think.  It's what simple people
		think that matters, and the fact is
		that simple people up and down the
		country are already talking about
		her.  Now you know what simple
		people are like, always ready to
		believe any old prophecy... like
		this one about a virgin from
		Lorraine saving France...?
			   (hands Tremoille the
			    book)
		And now this girl comes along --
		from Lorraine -- and suddenly
		there's a spark of hope in their
		simple minds.  We shouldn't
		disappoint them.  If they believe in
		her -- if she can put back the fire
		in our army -- then I believe in her
		too.


EXT.  CHINON - LONG SHOT - NIGHT

Moving torches gallop toward us -- a FLAME flares through
foreground with a whoosh, PANNING ROUND as soldiers ride
toward the distant castle of Chinon -- a gloomy great
silhouette, rising against a bloody sunset...


INT.  CHINON - GREAT HALL - NIGHT

Celebrations after a hunt.  Troubadours play -- a whole
tree trunk is burning in the vast chimney.  A Page comes
running into the big room and hurries excitedly over to
Charles.

					PAGE
		She's coming, your majesty... with
		an armed escort!

					CHARLES
		Alright, alright -- calm yourself.

					TREMOILLE
		Your majesty, I urge you not to see
		this woman.  It all reeks of a
		Burgundian trap!

					CHARLES
		My astrologers assure me that the
		hour is p-p-propitious -- Leo, with
		Virgo rising.  Have you ever noticed
		on the astrological chart how the
		Virgin is next to the Lion?

					TREMOILLE
		Supposing she's an assassin?

					CHARLES
		Tremoille, I'm not even king yet...
		who'd want to assassinate me?

Looking around at his courtiers?  They all would.


EXT.  CHINON COURTYARD - NIGHT

A FLAME swirls in the darkness -- the urgent clatter of
horses hooves -- steaming breath in the cold night air --
the SOUND of festivities coming from the castle walls
beyond -- the horses are reined -- one whinnies as
SOLDIERS jump down onto the cobbles -- a dark cape wraps
about a figure...


INT.  CHINON - GREAT HALL - NIGHT

Another page boy bursts in --

					PAGE #2
		She's arrived, my lord!  She's in
		the guards' room.

					CHARLES
		So... I suppose I'd better make a
		decision.

Charles glances between Tremoille, Regnault and Yolande,
but -- either by accident of will -- none are looking his
way.  He sighs deeply to the dashing, open-faced young
soldier we saw earlier, Jean d'AULON...

					CHARLES
		Oh dear, why is life so complicated?
		Sometimes I really wish I could be
		someone else.

					AULON
		That's a good idea, sire.

					CHARLES
		What do you mean?

					AULON
		Let someone else pretend to be you,
		and see if...

					CHARLES
		... if she can find me? -- That's a
		brilliant idea!  If she's really
		been sent by God she'll discover the
		trap, and if she's an assassin
		she'll kill the wrong man!
			   (to the page)
		Bring her up!

Charles turns to a coterie of ARMY CAPTAINS, standing
aside and aloof from the courtiers whom they evidently
despise.

					CHARLES
		My dear Captains, I've had a
		brilliant idea!  We're going to have
		a little game.  Now... let's pretend
		my throne is empty.  Who wants to be
		the king?

They all put up their hands...

					CHARLES
		Now there's a heart-warming sight!
		So let's see... which one of you
		could possibly pass as king?

He turns to the Duke of ALENCON, 25, strikingly handsome
in his bright, gilded armor.

					CHARLES
		Ah, Alencon, my noble duke, my royal
		cousin -- so fine, so brave, so rich
		-- so very rich -- so far-too-rich
		to be the King of France.  Everyone
		knows I'm the poorest man in my
		kingdom.

He turns to GILLES de Rais:  a dark, glamorous seducer,
dressed in black armor with a ring through one ear.

					CHARLES
		Gilles de Rais... Marshal of
		France... formidable to men,
		fascinating to women, feared by all.
		You'd be perfect to sit on my
		throne... so perfect that you might
		like it too much for my own piece of
		mind.

Charles turns to the bearded La Hire.

					CHARLES
		Ah, La Hire -- my angry captain...
		the bravest in France -- scarred by
		a dozen wars, but with heart and
		stomach for a dozen more.  You could
		pass for the king...

					LA HIRE
		Damn bloody right I could!

					CHARLES
		... until you opened your mouth.  No
		one with a tongue like yours could
		pass as the King of France.

The other Captains laugh heartily.

					CHARLES
		Ah well... it looks as though it's
		going to have to be me after all...
		But... wait a minute...

Charles spots the shy Jean d'Aulon.  Unlike the other
court toadies, Aulon is a quiet, honorable man.

					CHARLES
		Why not you -- Jean d'Aulon?  The
		only man who's poorer than I am, and
		so the only man I can trust.
		Dignified, honorable, wise... what
		more could we ask of a king?

					AULON
		My lord, I'm not sure that...

Charles takes his coat and puts it around Aulon's
shoulders.

					CHARLES
		My dear Aulon, to you it shall
		befall the honor of impersonating
		the royal blood!

					AULON
		Majesty, I can't...

					CHARLES
		Why, are you not ready to die for
		your king?

					AULON
		Of course I am, it's just that...

					CHARLES
		Good.  Until then, feel free to live
		like a king!

Laughter -- then the sound of approaching excitement.

					CHARLES
		Hurry, hurry -- on the throne...


INT.  CORRIDOR - CHINON - NIGHT

Armored feet clank along a stone corridor --


INT.  GREAT HALL - CHINON - NIGHT

Charles unceremoniously dumps Aulon on the throne...

					AULON
		Sire, you know how bad I am at this
		sort of game.

					CHARLES
		So... pretend it's not a game.

Charles abandons Aulon and disappears among his courtiers.
A pair of PAGE BOYS swing open the doors:  the courtiers
turn expectantly; Aulon tries to pose as the king.

From the Court's POV, a girl of 17 enters the great hall,
dressed in a grubby tunic, with long hair tied back
beneath a hood.  There could not be a more striking
contrast than the sophisticated, opulent, yet cowardly
courtiers and this naive, rough girl, almost childlike in
her simplicity, and yet so focused, so confident, so
secure in her mission, with a courage that radiates
conviction, and is contagious.

The courtiers step back to form a narrow channel as she
moves into the great hall.  Yolande marks the effect her
presence has on the court, smiling at their bemused gazes.

Jeanne passes the Archbishop, who defends himself by
sprinkling holy water in her path.  Tremoille oils his way
toward her with a can-I-help ingratiating smile...

					JEANNE
		I have come to see the Dauphin.

Tremoille nods obsequiously, ushering her toward Aulon,
who is now visibly uneasy.  Jeanne stops in front of him.
Aulon gazes at her.  Jeanne scans him a couple of times,
looks at him stonily.  Then smiles.  Aulon melts, his
cheeks blushing hot.  Jeanne cocks her head, like an
inquisitive child.

					JEANNE
		Who are you?

Aulon stammers in response...

					AULON
		I'm... I'm... I'm...

					TREMOILLE
		... His most gracious majesty
		Charles de Valois, Dauphin of
		France...

She gives Aulon another smile.

					JEANNE
		I can see you are a good man, but
		you're not the Dauphin.
			   (to Tremoille)
		I'm sorry to insist, but we have no
		time to lose.  I must see the
		Dauphin.  Where is he?

					TREMOILLE
		He's here.
			   (a gracious gesture)
		Find him yourself.

A brief pause, then Jeanne takes up the challenge.  She
moves on, examining the faces acutely.  Although a few of
the wimpoled ladies find her simple peasant dress amusing,
most are caught like moths in her flame.  She notices the
Three Captains (La Hire, Alencon and Gilles de Rais)
edging closer together, as though shielding someone
beyond.

Jeanne approaches them -- they draw closer together, but
now we can see Charles, overtly curious, yet anxious to
remain hidden.  His inquisitiveness wins -- but as Jeanne
walks up to him, the Three Captains spring in front of
her, swords drawn, the tips pressing at her throat...

					JEANNE
		There's no need to be afraid, sire.

					CHARLES
		I'm... I'm not the king...

					JEANNE
		I know you're not yet -- but you
		will be, soon.

Charles makes a gesture, and the soldiers cautiously
sheath their swords.

					CHARLES
		H-h-how did you know who I am?

					ALENCON
		Her voices, of course...

					GILLES
		"That's him" they said, "The one
		with the big nose and bags under his
		eyes."

They laugh -- whereupon Jeanne rushes at Charles and
flings herself on her knees, embracing him round the
ankles.

Charles screams -- the 3 Captains redraw their swords --
the court gasps -- then Charles gestures the Captains to
back off.

					JEANNE
		My gentle Dauphin, I bring you good
		news.

Charles puts out his hand to her, allowing her to rise.
She draws close to him, whispering...

					JEANNE
		It is a message from the King of
		Heaven.  For you -- and you only.

Jeanne speaks with such conviction that it seems
unnecessary to doubt her.  Her mesmeric effect on Charles
is being noticed by his courtiers.  He hesitates a moment,
then --

					CHARLES
		Follow me.

He leads her from the room.  Tremoille hurriedly follows
them.  Charles turns round in the doorway, barring him
further access.

					TREMOILLE
		Your majesty, I really think you...

					CHARLES
		My dear loyal Tremoille, I know I
		can count on you...

					TREMOILLE
		... as always, majesty...

					CHARLES
		... to ensure our privacy.  I need
		to talk to her.  Alone.

Tremoille looks non-plussed.

					TREMOILLE
		As you wish, majesty.

Charles disappears with Jeanne.

Tremoille ire at being barred is mollified by blocking the
path of Yolande.

					TREMOILLE
		He needs to talk to her.  Alone.


INT.  CASTLE - KING'S CHAMBER - DAY

Jeanne is seated facing Charles in front of a huge fire.
As the scene unfolds, their faces draw closer and closer.
Her voice is soft and sweet, but her conviction is
absolute.

					JEANNE
		I was about eight years old.  It was
		a beautiful spring day.  I was in
		the forest taking a short cut home
		when the wind started blowing in the
		trees -- such a strange sound --
		almost like words -- as if someone
		was calling...

FLASH:  The little BOY seen earlier is seated on his chair
in the middle of the field, pointing his finger at us --


INT.  CASTLE - KING'S CHAMBER - DAY

Charles is intrigued...

					JEANNE
		The second time was many years
		later.  It was autumn, and I was
		coming back from church when
		suddenly the same violent wind
		started to blow again...


EXT.  FIELD - SFX - DAY

FLASH:  The wind lifts Jeanne (17) from the ground, spins
her forward and flattens her on her back, her arms
outstretched, Her face gazing upward at the sky...

					JEANNE (O.S.)
		Everything was moving so fast -- the
		wind -- the clouds -- I couldn't
		move!  Then suddenly a shape
		appeared in the middle of the sky...

The fast-moving CLOUDS resolve themselves into the shape
of a face... the face of an OLD MAN.  He opens his mouth
wide, radiating a shaft of sunlight that strikes Jeanne,
still lying in the field.  The old man's mouth seems to
form the word "Jeanne", but the sound that emanates is so
vast that we can't be sure.

Suddenly the mouth snaps shut, releasing a huge FLASH OF
LIGHT --


INT.  CASTLE - KING'S CHAMBER - DAY

-- Charles jumps back, startled yet totally absorbed.
Jeanne's eyes sparkle with tears --

					JEANNE
		I was so frightened... he was so --
		so here...

FLASH:  The Boy is still sitting in his forest seat, but
now he is a beautiful young Man, pointing his finger at
Jeanne --

					JEANNE (O.S.)
		I realized then that he had chosen
		me, but I didn't understand what it
		was I had to do...

Jeanne's eyes sparkle with intensity...

					JEANNE
		What was my mission?  To help my
		country?  But how could I do that?
		I was only a poor girl who knew
		nothing about riding or making
		war... so I decided to wait and not
		to speak to anyone about it.

					CHARLES
		You did well...

					JEANNE
		I didn't wait long.  One day I was
		going to Mass, like I do every day,
		when the same strange wind started
		blowing again...


INT./ EXT.  CHURCH - SFX

The double doors of a church are blown open by wind coming
from inside -- right in front of Jeanne!  Surreal shafts
of light criss-cross the interior from the stained-glass
windows, illuminating Jeanne in myriad hues and colors.

She sways uneasily as the central stained-glass window
above the altar starts to warp and undulate, like heat
waves creating a mirage.  The image of a beautiful
archangel slowly comes to life, stepping out from the
window frame, then moving toward Jeanne...

					JEANNE
		Everything was suddenly made clear
		to me.  God was finally calling me.
		He had a mission for me -- a message
		to deliver...

The Archangel opens his arms to Jeanne as though to
embrace her.  She drops to her knees, opening her arms and
-- FLASH --


INT.  CASTLE - KING'S CHAMBER - DAY

Charles is in suspense, his face sweating...

					CHARLES
		... and what... what did he say?

					JEANNE
		He said that I have to save France
		from her enemies and give her back
		to God, and He told me that I --
		Jeanne -- will lead you to the altar
		at Rheims to be crowned King of
		France.

Charles slowly releases the breath he's been holding --
and the brimming tears run down his cheeks.  Jeanne takes
his hand and places it on her own damp cheek...

					JEANNE
		All you have to do now is put your
		trust in me.

Jeanne kisses his hands, and Charles is almost overcome
with emotion.  He seems, for the first time, utterly
defenseless, like the little hurt boy that he is.

					CHARLES
		I trust you, Jeanne -- I do -- and
		I envy your certainty, but how can I
		be certain that I have the right to
		call myself king when I don't even
		know who my father is.  My mother
		can't even remember... I -- I need
		to know...

Jeanne gazes at him a moment, then places her hands either
side of his head and draws him slowly forward until both
their foreheads are touching...

FLASHES:

A series of too-perfect images:

1:  A BELL comes crashing down on top of us --

2:  The ROYAL BANNER flies triumphantly in the wind --

3:  English CAPTAINS throw down their weapons and kneel in
    submission before Charles --

4:  Huge city GATES swing open, releasing a jubilant crowd
    who welcome the King in triumph --

5:  CHARLES kneels in Rheims Cathedral --

6:  Bejeweled HANDS place the CROWN of France on his
    head --


INT.  CHINON - KING'S CHAMBER - DAY

Jeanne's hands hold Charles' head, as though she has just
crowned him.  For Charles, the fantasy has become reality.

					JEANNE
		Do you really believe that God would
		let all this happen... if you were
		not the true King of France?


INT.  CASTLE - GREAT HALL - DAY

The Courtiers talk among themselves, nervously awaiting
Charles to rejoin them.  Presently the door opens and
Charles emerges, followed by Jeanne.  He is a man
transfigured.  Tremoille looks anxious.  Charles glances
at them, their expectant eyes awaiting his verdict.  He
leads Jeanne across to Aulon.

					CHARLES
		Jeanne, this is -- in fact -- my
		loyal friend and finest archer, Jean
		d'Aulon.  Jean... I place her in
		your care.  Find her suitable
		lodgings -- here -- in the castle...
		and guard her with your life.

					AULON
		Yes, my lord.

					JEANNE
		I don't need lodgings if we're to be
		marching on Orleans...

					CHARLES
		Orleans has held out for six months.
		I don't suppose a few days will make
		much difference.  Take some rest.

Jeanne follows Jean d'Aulon from the Great Hall, watched
in silence by his courtiers.  As soon as she's gone, the
whole room is filled with the myriad buzz of opinion.
Gilles gives Charles the eye...

					GILLES
		She certainly cast a spell on you.

Charles draws his three Captains aside.

					CHARLES
		She'll cast her spell on everyone if
		she's given half a chance... and we
		must ensure that she gets that
		chance.

The Captains look astonished.

					CHARLES
		Can you imagine the effect it will
		have on the English -- to see a girl
		riding at the head of our army?

					LA HIRE
		Yes.  They'll bleeding wet
		themselves!  Laughing.

					GILLES
		We're not your favorite captains
		anymore??

					CHARLES
		No -- I mean yes! -- of course...

					ALENCON
		Charles... you want to give the
		command of our army to a -- woman??

					CHARLES
		Of course not!  You're the ones in
		command, as always... but if she can
		put back the fire in our soldiers,
		then maybe you, my dear Captains,
		will be able to raise the siege of
		Orleans.  What do you think?

					GILLES
		Brilliant idea... but to be really
		effective, why not send a whole army
		of virgins?

					LA HIRE
		That'll put fire in my soldiers!

The Captains laugh -- at Charles' expense.

					CHARLES
		Please, my friends... you know me...
		you know how certain I am about
		everything, but -- maybe for the
		first time in my life I -- I don't
		know why -- but I feel I have to
		trust her... and now I'm asking you
		-- I'm begging you -- to trust me...


INT.  ROOM - CHINON CASTLE - DAY

Jeanne blows the dust from a wooden crucifix, then
replaces it above a bed.  Jean d'Aulon has brought her to
a small room in one of the castle's turrets:  clean,
plainly furnished, but hardly hospitable.  Jeanne inspects
the room while Aulon stands by the door.

					AULON
		Listen, please accept my apologies
		for... you know, me pretending to be
		the... well it wasn't really my
		idea... well, yes it was my idea
		but...

					JEANNE
		Do you think I could have some
		water?

Jeanne smiles sweetly, catching Aulon off guard.

					AULON
		Yes, of course... water... anything
		else?

Two page boys run into the room, carrying luggage, water,
washing bowl and some food.  They are LOUIS and RAYMOND,
both 13, as inseparable as they are loyal.  Jeanne looks
up, then sits on the bed, testing the horsehair mattress.

					JEANNE
		I would like some fresh straw.

					AULON
		Louis... water and fresh straw!

Louis goes running off.

					JEANNE
		And I would like to see a priest.

					AULON
		Now?

					JEANNE
		Yes.  I didn't confess today.

					AULON
		Right.
			   (to Raymond)
		Raymond... a priest.

Raymond goes running off.

					JEANNE
		I shall also be needing a war horse
		-- mine is too slow -- and armor --
		and a good sword -- and an artist to
		make me a banner.

					AULON
		Now?

					JEANNE
		Better today than tomorrow.

					AULON
		Well... uh -- this might take a
		little time -- but let me see what I
		can do.

He's about to leave when Jeanne adds --

					JEANNE
		I also need someone who can read and
		write.

					AULON
		This I can do.
			   (Jeanne looks
			    surprised)
		I was studying at the University of
		Paris -- till the English invaded
		it.

					JEANNE
		I thought you were an archer?

					AULON
		Yes, I am.  I'm an archer who can
		read and write.  Who do you want to
		write to?

					JEANNE
		The King of England.  I want to give
		them the chance to leave Orleans in
		peace before I get there.

Aulon just stares at her.


INT.  GUARD HOUSE - CHINON - DAWN

Raymond hands a rolled parchment to a Rider, already
mounted and waiting...


EXT.  CHINON CASTLE & MEADOW - DAWN

The Rider gallops over the drawbridge and away.


EXT.  CHINON - TERRACE - DAY

Tremoille stands on a terrace before Chinon, watching the
rider heading down the dusty highway.

					TREMOILLE
		I can't believe you let her send
		such a letter...

Charles is a short distance away, watching Jeanne in a
meadow below the castle, swishing a stick from side to
side.

					CHARLES
		She's going to do it.

Tremoille exchanges a worried glance with Archbishop
Regnault, who is standing behind Charles.

					REGNAULT
		Sire, it's going to take more than a
		letter to drive out the English.

					TREMOILLE
		An army for instance...

					CHARLES
		My captains have sworn their
		support.

					TREMOILLE
		No doubt your captains will fight
		for your fine cause -- but what
		about the ordinary soldier?  They
		don't fight for causes these days.
		They fight for money.  Who's going
		to pay them?

					YOLANDE (O.S.)
		I am.

Yolande moves forward, accompanied by her daughter Mary
(Charles' wife) and grandson, young Louis.

					CHARLES
		You will??

					YOLANDE
		For the sake of France, Charles.
		And for the sake of my grandson.

She pats Louis on the head.

					TREMOILLE
		With respect, my lady -- the
		Archbishop and I have begun delicate
		negotiations with the Burgundians.
		If we can bring them over to our
		side...

					YOLANDE
		Negotiate by all means, but from a
		position of strength.  If the
		English take Orleans, there'll be
		nothing left to negotiate -- the
		rest of the country will be theirs.

					TREMOILLE
		My lady, it would be the height of
		folly to let this... child... lead
		our army in the king's name without
		first verifying her true motives.

					REGNAULT
		Tremoille is right.  This girl must
		be subjected to a rigorous
		examination by the Doctors of the
		Church at Poitiers.  We need to be
		absolutely certain that she is not
		an instrument of the devil.

					CHARLES
		How can anyone be absolutely certain
		about anything?  Our intuitions are
		sometimes our best counselors...

					REGNAULT
		We must listen to Mother Holy Church
		before listening to our intuitions.

					TREMOILLE
		Wait... she claims to be a virgin...
		Well that's something we can examine
		-- and be absolutely certain about.

Charles hesitates -- turns to Yolande, who looks somewhat
uneasy at the suggestion.

					YOLANDE
		Why not?

Charles looks across to Jeanne in the distance, still
playing with her stick.  Suddenly she swipes at a bulrush,
violently decapitating its head.  Charles looks worried.

					CHARLES
		Let's find out.


INT.  POITIERS UNIVERSITY - ROOM - NIGHT

A big, spacious room, into which files a procession of TEN
DOCTORS of THEOLOGY and TEN NOTABLES, walking two-by-two.
They divide either side of CAMERA, then halt and about-
turn, facing inward with military precision.  Two PAGE
BOYS set up screens in front of the two rows, preventing
them from viewing Jeanne, who is standing on a low table
between the rows, wearing a laced-up robe.

Now a procession of NUNS form up behind the table.  Two of
them step forward, on cue, then proceed to loosen the
laces of Jeanne's robe and roll up the hem.  Meanwhile an
old HAG is washing her hands.

With Jeanne suitably prepared, the old HAG stands in front
of her.  Two little Girls slip in a special stool and the
old HAG squats down, enabling her to look between Jeanne's
legs.  Only women are privy to this ritualistic
inspection; the men remain standing behind the screens.

Yolande waits with the disfigured Richmond near a window.
The old Hag is certainly taking her time, and Yolande is
getting decidedly nervous...

					RICHMOND
			   (whispering)
		What if she's not?

					YOLANDE
		I'll kill her myself...

A few tense moments -- then the ancient HAG announces with
great solemnity...

					HAG
		There is no sign of corruption or
		violation.  She is intact.

... to Yolande's visible relief.


INT.  COUNCIL ROOM - POITIERS UNIVERSITY - DAY

A dark, musty council room, where theologians and learned
doctors of the Church sit in wooden tiers, examining
Jeanne.  Archbishop Regnault is among them.  So too is
Jean d'Aulon -- but he as a silent, albeit supportive
observer.

Jeanne stands in the center of the room, hands folded, as
though on trial.  She's evidently been here many hours.

					INQUISITOR #1
		And... what exactly was this --
		"vision" -- wearing?

					JEANNE
		I don't remember.

					INQUISITOR #2
		Was it wearing a crown?

					JEANNE
		I saw no crown.

					INQUISITOR #3
		Well, was it naked?

The Court have a good chuckle.

					JEANNE
		Do you think that God can't afford
		to give him clothes?

An audible reaction, somewhere between amusement and
admiration.  A deadpan scribe carefully writes down both
questions and answers in a large, vellum-bound book.

					INQUISITOR #1
		Did this -- vision -- give you
		anything -- an object, like a ring,
		or a rosary or anything -- by which
		we can verify your claim?

					JEANNE
		He gave me good advice.

					INQUISITOR #4
		During your childhood, did you have
		any sort of military experience?

					JEANNE
		No.

					INQUISITOR
		Are you practiced in the skills of
		swordsmanship?

					JEANNE
		No.  But I'm good with a stick.

A murmur of laughter, though not from us.

					INQUISITOR #4
		Do you know what a Dijon Culverin
		is?

					JEANNE
		No.

					INQUISITOR #4
		It's an item of artillery.  How do
		you expect to raise the siege of
		Orleans if you are ignorant about
		modern artillery?

					JEANNE
		The road to Orleans is long, and I
		have good captains with me.  I will
		learn fast, believe me.

The Inquisitor and his colleagues whisper in a huddle.
Regnault remains unconvinced, and indicates his strong
reservations.  Finally the Chief Inquisitor addresses
Jeanne.

					CHIEF INQUISITOR
		We would like to believe you Jeanne,
		but we feel that if God were to want
		us to believe in you, he would have
		sent you with a sign as proof that
		we should believe in you.  We cannot
		advise the King to entrust you with
		the army merely on your assertion.
		Can't you do something?  Or show us
		something?  Some sign to prove that
		you are sent by God?

					JEANNE
		Sire, I did not come here to preform
		tricks.  You are all much cleverer
		than I am -- me, I don't know A from
		B -- but this much I do know:  that
		while the people of France lie
		bleeding, you sit around in your
		fine clothes trying to deceive me --
		yet all you're doing is deceiving
		yourselves.  You say you are men of
		God, yet you can't see His hand in
		having guided me safely through
		five hundred leagues of enemy
		country to bring you His help?  Is
		that not proof enough?  Or do you
		want still more signs?  Give me
		command of an army, take me to
		Orleans, and there you will see the
		sign I was sent to make!

Aulon can barely restrain himself from applauding.  The
Chief Inquisitor reaches his decision, raises his gavel
and --


EXT.  LES TOURELLES - ORLEANS - DAY

-- down comes a mallet, SLAMMING out a safety wedge which
releases a CATAPULT -- and a huge boulder flies across the
river in the direction of Orleans...


EXT.  BATTLEMENTS - ORLEANS - DAY

A LOOK-OUT spots the incoming missile -- yells out --

					GAMACHE
		45-er, nor-nor-west -- straight at
		us!


INT.  DUNOIS' HQ - ORLEANS - DAY

DUNOIS is alone, writing a letter at a small table --

					DUNOIS
		Which side's that?

					GAMACHE (O.S.)
		Window side...!!

Dunois realizes he's near the window and dives for cover
just as the massive boulder plummets through the ceiling,
demolishing the table where he'd been sitting seconds
before, and leaving a huge hole in the wall.

Dunois emerges from under a large table, dusting himself.
He looks thin, haggard and exhausted after six months of
siege.

Suddenly a young soldier -- Poton de XAINTRAILLES -- comes
bursting in, ignoring the mess...

					XAINTRAILLES
		My lord Dunois... I have wonderful
		news! -- finally -- he's sending
		her to us -- thanks be to God --
		we're saved -- it's wonderful!

					DUNOIS
		Calm yourself, Xaintrailles.  Now
		slowly.  Who has finally done what?

					XAINTRAILLES
		The Dauphin -- he's sending us food
		-- and supplies -- and an army --
		led by Jeanne -- the maiden from
		Lorraine -- isn't it wonderful?!

					DUNOIS
			   (deadpan)
		Yes, it's a miracle.

					XAINTRAILLES
		And it's not the first one!  They
		say she saved a little boy who was
		dying of...

					DUNOIS
		Xaintrailles...!  Don't talk to me
		about miracles...
			   (pointing to hole in
			    floor)
		If I was still sitting there waiting
		for a miracle, I'd be dead now.
		Anyway...

Dunois looks up at the sky, now visible through a hole in
the roof.

					XAINTRAILLES
		But... don't you think we should at
		least... go and... welcome her?

					DUNOIS
			   (sighs)
		As long as she brings food and
		supplies, she'll be welcome.


EXT.  RIVER BANK & POV OF ORLEANS - DAY

The walled city of Orleans stands in the distance on the
far side of the river Loire.  CAMERA CRANES DOWN to find
Dunois, Xaintrailles and a small escort of soldiers,
waiting atop a ridge where they're evidently been for some
time.

					GAMACHE
		I can't believe they're sending a
		woman.

					DUNOIS
		Maybe they never sent anyone.

TRAVELING SHOT:  Horse's hooves galloping...

					GAMACHE
		I wonder what color dress she'll be
		wearing?

TRAVELING SHOT:  Horse's breath steaming...

					GAMACHE
		I'll wager red -- how about you?

					DUNOIS
		Blue...

TRAVELING SHOT:  Stirrups press into the horse's flanks...

					DUNOIS
		... with a blue ribbon in her hair
		to tie up Talbot!

TRAVELING SHOT:  the horse's eyes, wild and dilated...

					DUNOIS
		Does anyone know if she even knows
		how to ride a horse?

TRAVELING SHOT:  horse's legs at the triple gallop...

					XAINTRAILLES
		She knows...

THEIR POV:  a white banner sweeps into SHOT -- then a
knight clad in shinning white armor.  The knight raises
his visor to reveal -- Jeanne, her face gleaming with
sweat, eyes blazing.  Dunois is speechless.

					JEANNE
		Were you sent by Lord Dunois?

					DUNOIS
		Yes... they were.

					JEANNE
		Good.  Where are the English?

					DUNOIS
		Everywhere.  Where is the food?

					JEANNE
		It's coming -- I rode on ahead.  I
		have to speak with the Captain of
		the English army... his name's
		Talbot...

					DUNOIS
		I know...

					JEANNE
		Good.  Can you bring me to him?

					DUNOIS
		He's on the other side of the river.

Now La Hire and Gilles de Rais ride into view...

					JEANNE
		So who gave the order to bring me to
		this side of the river??

					LA HIRE
			   (calling to Dunois)
		Hey, my friend!  I'm glad to see
		your ugly damn face again!

					JEANNE
		La Hire, I'm warning you -- don't
		swear!

					LA HIRE
		Sorry Jeanne...
			   (to Dunois)
		Did you both meet already?

					DUNOIS
		Well... sort of...

					GILLES
			   (to Dunois, smiling)
		She's quite something, huh?

					LA HIRE
		Jeanne, let me introduce the king's
		half brother, the dogged Lord
		Dunois.

					JEANNE
		Then, Lord Dunois, show me the way
		to the other side of the river...

She starts to move as Jean d'Aulon rides up --

					DUNOIS
		Wait, wait...

					JEANNE
		For what?

					DUNOIS
		Because... because -- I mean -- the
		English have a broad sense of humor,
		but... I mean, you don't
		understand... to them you're a
		witch, working for the devil.  What
		makes you think they'll listen to
		you?

					JEANNE
		Because if they don't, I'll raise
		such a war-cry against them that
		they will remember us forever!

					DUNOIS
		Well.  I'd love to see that, but
		after taking counsel with my
		captains, I felt it would be better
		to first bring the food into the
		city, then wait till Alencon arrives
		with reinforcements before doing
		anything.

					JEANNE
		You may have been with your counsel,
		but I've been with mine, and I'm
		telling you, God's counsel is wiser
		than yours, and he's telling me to
		speak to the English -- now!

					DUNOIS
			   (matching her anger)
		Fine -- go now if you want, but not
		with me!  You may have a duty to God
		but I have a duty to my people, and
		my people are starving!  So right
		now I'm going to take the food back
		to the city, and if you can please
		calm down, and let me accompany you
		to Orleans, it will be my honor to
		welcome you.

Gilles smiles at Jeanne's evident frustration.


EXT.  EAST GATE - STREET & SQUARE - ORLEANS - DUSK

The battered east gate of Orleans swings open, and a
convoy of wagons enter the town, guarded by soldiers.
Jeanne and the Captains are on horseback, the remainder on
foot.

A group of hungry children spot the arrival, their eyes
widening at the sight of the food:  beef, mutton,
chickens, sacks of grain, barrels of salted fish...

But most of the citizens are too starved and too weary to
show much excitement; hollow-eyed and emaciated, they have
the expressionless faces of concentration camp inmates.
La Hire is sickened at the sight...

					LA HIRE
		Jesus Christ... the goddamn English
		will pay for this!

					JEANNE
		They will -- and so will you if you
		go on swearing like that.

By the time the little procession has reached the main
square, a CROWD has gathered.  Sluggishly they make way
for Jeanne and Dunois to ride between them...

Now the interest in Jeanne begins to warm up -- the CROWD
press in on her.  Slowly at first, but with increasing
fervor, the pressure builds as the crowd  try to touch
her.

					CROWD
		Bless us, Jeanne...!  Save us!


EXT.  JEANNE'S HOUSE - ORLEANS - NIGHT

Soldiers push back the crowd, allowing Jeanne to reach a
large gabled house.  As she dismounts, a woman runs
forward --

					WOMAN
		Jeanne!  Bless her -- touch her!

The woman holds up her BABY for Jeanne to touch.

					JEANNE
		Touch her yourself... your touch is
		just as good as mine.

					WOMAN
		But... you've been sent by God!

					JEANNE
		So has everyone.

Jeanne turns sharply away and walks inside the house,
followed by Aulon and the others.


INT.  HQ - ORLEANS HOUSE - NIGHT

A frustrated Jeanne marches into Dunois' new war-room.
Dunois enters, followed by his Captains, and is happy to
see a model of Orleans...

					DUNOIS
		La Hire, Gilles -- let me show you
		something...

The Captains go into a huddle, leaving Jeanne smarting.
She looks out of the window, where the crowd is still
trying to catch a glimpse of her.

					JEANNE
		Who do they think I am?!

					AULON
		Jeanne, calm down.  You can't blame
		the people -- they've been hearing
		all about you for weeks.

					JEANNE
		There's nothing to hear -- I haven't
		done anything.  And why haven't I
		done anything?
			   (turning to the
			    captains)
		Because none of you will listen to
		me!!

She shouts in frustration, and Dunois and the other
captains swing round.  Dunois waits for the echo to die
away.

					DUNOIS
		Would you like to join us?  We're
		about to discuss the campaign...

Jeanne walks over, still vexed.  Using the model, Dunois
continues his situation briefing.

					DUNOIS
		From here, Talbot has spread his
		forces between these forts up here,
		but in the last few days it seems --
		according to our scouts -- that some
		troops have been deployed to this
		fort here -- which makes me think
		that this is where they'll be
		launching their attack from...

Dunois points to St. Loup -- a smaller fort to the east.

					GILLES
		I would have thought they'd have
		attacked from here, where Talbot is.

					DUNOIS
		I doubt it.  From here they won't be
		able to utilize the river, whereas
		over here the current will be with
		them.

					LA HIRE
		What about this huge pile down here?

					DUNOIS
		That's the Tourelles.  The English
		were planning to launch an attack
		from it, but then we broke down the
		bridge, which should keep them quiet
		for a while.  My hunch is, the
		attack will come from St. Loup.

He pauses, then turns to Jeanne, somewhat apprehensively.

					GILLES
		And... what does Jeanne think?

					JEANNE
		I don't think.  I leave that to God.
		I'm nothing in all this, I'm just
		the messenger.

					DUNOIS
		So... what is the message?

					JEANNE
		We offer the English a last chance
		to return home in peace.  If they
		refuse, we recross the river and
		attack them here -- at the
		Tourelles.

They all look astonished.  Gilles grins.

					DUNOIS
		Jeanne, that really makes no sense
		at all.  The Tourelles is virtually
		impregnable... besides, if we're on
		the other side of the river
		attacking the Tourelles, what's to
		stop Talbot attacking the city from
		the north?

					JEANNE
		God.

					GILLES
		God... why of course -- we'd
		forgotten about him!  Strange, I
		don't seem to remember seeing him at
		Agincourt.

					LA HIRE
		Damn right!

					GILLES
		Oh, but I forgot!  It was a
		Sunday... that explains it.  God's
		day off.

They all laugh, apart from Aulon and the page boys.

					JEANNE
		You know, I feel a great sorrow for
		you, because you're laughing now,
		but by tomorrow night some of you
		will be dead and having to repeat
		your jokes in front of God.

					DUNOIS
		Jeanne, with respect -- we can't
		just attack the Tourelles like that
		-- it's a very complicated matter
		and...

					JEANNE
		What complicated about it?  All you
		have to do is do what you're told --
		what could be simpler than that?
		I'm the drum on which God is beating
		out his message -- beating so loudly
		it's bursting my ears -- but you're
		all so full of your own voices,
		you're deaf to His!

					AULON
		Jeanne, be patient...

Jeanne turns on him --

					JEANNE
		"Be patient, be patient"... is that
		the only advice you can ever come up
		with??  I've shown more patience
		than a dozen saints!

					DUNOIS
		Jeanne, you have to understand --
		it's not easy for us -- I mean for
		our pride -- to suddenly be usurped
		by a -- well, with all due respect,
		by a... girl.

					JEANNE
		Ah, so that's it.  To you I'm just a
		girl.

					DUNOIS
		Jeanne, put yourself in my shoes for
		a moment -- how would you feel, if
		you were me?

					JEANNE
		Knowing what I know?  Enormous
		gratitude.

Jeanne turns and heads for the door.  La Hire nudges
Gilles as she approaches --

					LA HIRE
		One hell of a girl, huh?

As she passes, Jeanne slaps La Hire right across the
face --

					JEANNE
		I warned you!

-- and walk out, slamming the door behind her.  The others
stare after her, while La Hire nurses his cheek.

					GILLES
			   (to La Hire)
		I do love her when her fire gets
		well and truly stoked!

					LA HIRE
		Me too...

A pause, then the door at the other end of the room bursts
open and in walks the expansive Duke of Alencon.

					ALENCON
		Hello my friends!  What a journey,
		but we made it!  Back together
		again... let's have some fun!

He rubs his hands in anticipation, then notes his
comrades' expressions, still recovering from Jeanne's
outburst.

					ALENCON
		Did I miss something?


INT.  JEANNE'S BEDROOM - ORLEANS HOUSE - NIGHT

Jeanne draws her sword with a terrifying scrape as though
about to kill someone, slices something in f.g. -- and a
chunk of black hair falls to the ground.

					JEANNE
		So what if I'm a girl...?
			   (cuts another chunk)
		You need to look like a man to drive
		out the English?
			   (and another)
		Fine... let's look like a man!

Aulon grabs her by the wrist to take the sword from her --

					AULON
		Jeanne, stop it!

					JEANNE
		How dare you stop me doing God's
		will!

Aulon wrestles to get the sword from her --

					AULON
		He didn't tell you to cut all your
		hair off...!

					JEANNE
		How dare you tell me what God tells
		me to do!

					AULON
		Alright, whatever -- but since He's
		not going to come down and cut it
		himself, at least let someone cut it
		properly!

He finally manages to grab the sword from her...

					AULON
		Raymond -- bring me scissors!
		Louis -- fetch that mirror!

The two page boys hop to it, but when Louis brings the
mirror, Jeanne slaps it from his hand...

					AULON
		Jeanne, stop getting so angry about
		everything...!  Calm down!

Jeanne stares at him.

					JEANNE
		I am calm.  It's God who's angry.  I
		need to send a letter.  Now.

Aulon looks at her.


INT.  HQ - ORLEANS HOUSE - NIGHT

Dunois reads the parchment that Aulon hands to him...

					JEANNE (V.O.)
		To you, Henry King of England, and
		to you, Duke of Bedford who call
		yourself Regent of France, obey the
		King of Heaven and abandon your
		siege...

Dunois can scarcely believe it.  He hands it to Alencon...

					JEANNE (V.O.)
		... give back the keys to the other
		towns you have taken, and go back
		home to your island...

Equally bemused, Alencon hands it to La Hire...

					JEANNE (V.O.)
		To you Lord Talbot, I beg you as
		humbly as I can beg you, for the
		sake of the lives of your soldiers,
		do not bring about your own
		destruction...

La Hire whistles with admiration and hands it to Gilles.

					JEANNE (V.O.)
		Surrender to me, Jeanne the Maiden,
		who is sent here by God, and she
		will make peace with you...

Gilles grins, and hands back to Aulon, who looks to Dunois
for an answer.  Dunois gives a vague nod of the head...


EXT.  BROKEN BRIDGE - ORLEANS - NIGHT

As Jeanne's letter continues, Aulon walks across the
broken stone bridge that once connected the city to the
south bank of the Loire.  Two-thirds the way across, the
bridge ends abruptly, leaving a yawning gap between us and
the fortress of the Tourelles.

					JEANNE (V.O.)
		... but if you do not heed my
		warning, then we shall raise such a
		battle-cry as there has not been
		heard in France for a thousand
		years!   

Aulon takes the arrow to which Jeanne's letter is already
tied, places it in the bow -- takes aim and fires...


EXT.  TOURELLES - ROOF/COURTYARD - NIGHT

The arrow lands in wooden planking.  An English soldier
with a flaming red beard yanks it out, gives it a cursory
glance, grins, then clambers down to the courtyard below
where soldiers are busily trimming the branches from
freshly-felled trees.  Redbeard hands the letter to an
English captain, Glasdale...

					JEANNE (V.O.)
		This is the third and last time I
		will write to you...

Glasdale reads it, and gives his response.


EXT.  BROKEN BRIDGE - ORLEANS - NIGHT

Aulon is still waiting at the end of the broken bridge.

					JEANNE (V.O.)
		If you are still here at noon, I
		warn you that you will hear from me
		to your very great destruction.
		Please give me your answer speedily.

Redbeard yells out from the top of the Tourelles...

					REDBEARD
		Go fuck yourself!


INT.  JEANNE'S BEDROOM - ORLEANS HOUSE - NIGHT

Aulon hesitates, then softly opens the door.  He tiptoes
into the room, looks at Jeanne, then at Louis, who has
fallen asleep with the scissors still clasped somewhat
dangerously to his chest.  Aulon gently removes them.  As
he places them on the table, Jeanne murmurs in her sleep,
but without opening her eyes.

					JEANNE
		What did they say?

					AULON
		Uh... they said... they will think
		about it.

					JEANNE
		Good.

					AULON
		But... to be honest... I don't think
		they'll leave tomorrow.

Jeanne is almost asleep again...

					JEANNE
		I can't wait... for tomorrow...

Aulon sits in a chair nearby, gazing at Jeanne, who now
looks even younger, with her hair shorn short like a boy.


EXT.  BATTLEFIELD - ST. LOUP - DAWN

SMASH CUT into the fury of battle -- swords hacking
through armor, whirling maces smashing visors, blood
spurting from severed limbs... Among the combatants:
Dunois, Alencon, La Hire and Gilles...


INT.  JEANNE'S BEDROOM - ORLEANS HOUSE - DAWN

Jeanne suddenly sits bolt upright, eyes wide.  Aulon is
still asleep in his chair where we last saw him.

					JEANNE
		French blood is spilling!

Aulon awakes as she leaps to her feet, strapping on her
breast plate and gauntlets...

					AULON
		What's going on?!

					JEANNE
		They've started the battle without
		me!

She tips the two page boys onto the floor...

					JEANNE
		Oh, my boys -- why didn't you wake
		me up?!  Come on, hurry up --
		Raymond, saddle my horse -- there's
		a battle to fight and a war to be
		won!

Raymond runs off and Aulon takes his place, helping Louis
to buckle on Jeanne's armor.  She rushes off, leaving
Louis to assist Aulon with his own armor...


EXT.  HOUSE & STREET - ORLEANS - DAWN

Jeanne runs out of the house to where Raymond is standing
with her horse.  She mounts it and canters off...


INT.  JEANNE'S BEDROOM - ORLEANS - DAWN

Still buckling on his own armor, Aulon spots Jeanne's
furled white banner leaning against the wall...


EXT.  HOUSE & STREET - ORLEANS - DAWN

Jeanne suddenly remembers she's forgotten her banner.  She
turns her horse about and canters back, screaming out --

					JEANNE
		My banner!  I forgot my banner!

Aulon appears at the window, holding her banner --

					AULON
		Jeanne... here!

Jeanne circles about and canters forward...

					JEANNE
		Throw it!

Aulon throws it down to her.  She catches it with one
hand, turns and gallops off down the street, the white
banner streaming out behind her.


EXT.  EAST GATE - ORLEANS - DAWN

The Guard above the main gate sees the French army
approaching in full retreat.  He calls down...

					GUARD
		Open the gates!


EXT.  STREETS - ORLEANS - DAWN

Sparks fly as the hooves of Jeanne's horse strike the
flint cobblestones, swift and clean...


EXT.  ST. LOUP VALLEY - ORLEANS - DAWN

... unlike the hundreds of hooves pounding through mud and
mire in the opposite direction.


EXT.  EAST GATE - ORLEANS - DAWN

Jeanne reaches the gates as they are swung open, and the
first of the retreating troops make it back to the city --
among them, La Hire and Gilles de Rais...

					JEANNE
		What happened?  Who gave the order
		to attack?

					LA HIRE
		God knows, but it was a bad idea!

					JEANNE
			   (to Gilles)
		Were the men confessed?  Where are
		the priests?

					GILLES
			   (out of breath)
		We didn't take them... we wanted to
		be fast... wanted to make a surprise
		attack...

Dunois rides up and Jeanne assails him --

					JEANNE
		Dunois... was it you who ordered the
		attack?  Answer me?!

					DUNOIS
		Can we -- uh -- discuss this later?

					JEANNE
		Sooner is better than later!

Jeanne charges forward, into the confused ranks of
retreating French soldiers.  Dunois thinks she's gone
crazy --

					DUNOIS
		Come back... you'll be killed!

But Jeanne's not listening.  She's been waiting long
enough for this moment, and now she has it, there's no
going back.  She stands in her stirrups and shouts out --

					JEANNE
		Follow me and I will give you
		victory!

La Hire is the first to change his mind, riding up behind
Jeanne like Attila the Hun as she gallops forward into the
path of the retreating French.  Now the Duke of Alencon
joins them, and soon the whole army has turned about -- an
immense tidal wave of energy rolling back across the
valley...


EXT.  ST. LOUP FORTIFICATIONS - ORLEANS - DAY

... toward the astonished English.  One moment they were
pursuing their hapless enemies, but now an avenging angel
bears down on them, sunlight glinting off her armor.  They
start racing back toward their own fortifications:  the
bastille St. Loup -- a great fortress amid a network of
trenches and tunnels...

The French army is finally behaving as a single organism
whereas the English cohesion fragments into shards of
individual panic -- every man for himself!  They regard
Jeanne as a sorceress, and terror spreads like cancer
among their ranks.  They turn and flee back to their own
lines, only to be bombarded by a fusillade of their own
missiles, poorly aimed at the French.

Soon the St. Loup tower is ablaze, the English are forced
to abandon their fortress... and the French finally get to
celebrate their first victory within living memory.

Jeanne has become an object of worship and veneration, and
the soldiers crowd about her, cheering her as their
savior.  Presently Dunois rides up with his Captains...

					DUNOIS
		It's a great victory, Jeanne... your
		victory.  But we must follow it
		through and pursue the English back
		to Talbot's camp... unless of course
		you have another good idea?

Jeanne closes her eyes a moment... then smiles at Dunois.

					JEANNE
		We return to Orleans... across the
		bridge, at the Tourelles.

					GILLES
		But the bridge has been pulled down!

					JEANNE
		The English are rebuilding it.

					DUNOIS
		How do you know?!

FLASH:  Jeanne and her army are silently moving through a
forest.  From her POV, she notices hundreds of fresh
trees-stumps...

					JEANNE
		You have been with your counsel, and
		I have been with mine.


EXT.  TOURELLES COMPLEX - ORLEANS - DAY

The English are moving up the stripped trees we saw
earlier from the Tourelles courtyard toward the broken
bridge.  Glasdale surveys the operation with satisfaction.


EXT.  TOURELLES - POV FROM ROOF - DAY

Redbeard and the other English Guards on the roof of the
Tourelles spot Jeanne's army in the far distance.
Redbeard calls down to Glasdale...

					REDBEARD
		Glasdale!  Looks like the froggie
		whore's coming to pay you a visit.


EXT.  MONASTERY - ORLEANS - DAY

Jeanne rides at the head of the army, flanked by Dunois,
La Hire, Alencon, Gilles, Aulon, Xaintrailles.  They halt
in front of a ruined monastery to the south of the
Tourelles.  Jeanne gives instructions for the placement of
artillery...

					JEANNE
		Position the long-bows over there,
		crossbows over there -- and set up
		Dijon Culverins either side of those
		trees...

					DUNOIS
		The wind will be against us...

					JEANNE
		The wind will be with us!
			   (to the Captains)
		Do as I say.


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DAY

The English take up their positions along the ramparts of
the battery -- a massive, square fortification, surrounded
by a deep, empty moat.

Jeanne rides forward to the edge of the dry moat, her
banner billowing in the breeze, and addresses the
English...

					JEANNE
		Glasdale, can you hear me?  You who
		call me a whore, I pity your soul
		and the souls of your men.  Yield
		now to the King of Heaven, and go
		back to your island...

					GLASDALE
		And you, go back to Hell!

Jeanne turns and gallops back to the French soldiers as
Glasdale turns coolly to Redbeard --

					GLASDALE
		Don't kill her till I've had my fill
		of her!

-- and walks back to the Tourelles.

The French have established a temporary headquarters.
Dunois is drawing a map in the dirt and is preparing a
battle plan with his Captains...

					DUNOIS
		Let's plan this attack a little more
		carefully than this morning...

					GILLES
		Good idea!

					JEANNE (O.S.)
			   (calling)
		My fine soldiers...!

Dunois turns to see Jeanne, standing before the army...

					JEANNE
		This morning, God gave us our first
		victory, but that was nothing
		compared to what he is ready to give
		us now.  I know you are tired and
		hungry, but I swear to you in the
		name of the King of Heaven that even
		if these English were hanging from
		the clouds by their fingertips, we
		shall tear them down before
		nightfall...!  Now, my brave
		soldiers... let those who love me
		follow me!

With a valiant cry, a thousand soldiers tear forward
behind Jeanne.  Dunois is speechless.  Gilles lays a
sympathetic hand on his shoulder.

					GILLES
		You were saying?

Jeanne rides at full tilt down into the dry moat, and for
the next few minutes, the air is thick with the tumult of
battle.  As each successive wave swarms across the moat,
so they are met by a fusillade of English flame and steel
from the battery above.  But the French respond with equal
fervor:  the Dijon Culverins deployed by Jeanne now rain
an aerial bombardment of boulders down upon the English,
while their arrows darken the sky above...

Jeanne reaches the base of the battery.  She leaps down
from her horse and starts to climb one of the ladders
being thrown up against the wall... but is suddenly struck
by an arrow from the rampart above.  She reels -- the
ladder sways -- and Aulon catches her in his arms as she
falls back to earth.  Redbeard is jokingly furious --

					REDBEARD
		Hey, you just killed my woman!

The English laugh and jeer, but the French are in dismay
at the sight of their Jeanne, unconscious, lying in
Aulon's arms, with the arrow wedged deep above her breast.


EXT.  MONASTERY BEHIND TOURELLES - DAY

Aulon, La Hire and Xaintrailles carry her to the ruined
monastery while the two page boys follow anxiously behind.


INT.  ST. AUGUSTINE MONASTERY - DAY

They enter the shell-shattered sanctuary of a gothic
chapel where Aulon directs them to lay Jeanne against the
wall.  In the distance we can hear the muffled sounds of
war, but in here it is strangely quiet.

The great war-lords stand in a semi-circle, pathetically
wringing their hands, like the seven dwarves bereaving the
stricken Snow White.  The sight of tears trickling down La
Hire's scarred cheeks is as touching as it is pathetic.
Aulon wipes her brow, leaning in very close to feel her
pulse and whether her mouth exhales breath.  He turns to
Raymond, who stands close by with Louis --

					AULON
		Go and find the physician... I saw
		him with the supplies.

Raymond races off...

					GILLES
		We have to take out the arrow now.

					AULON
		It's in so deep -- I'm afraid she'll
		bleed to death if we pull it out...

					LA HIRE
		There must be something we can do
		for her for Chrissakes!

					GILLES
			   (sarcastic)
		Yes.  We can pray.

					LA HIRE
		Good idea...

La Hire turns and directs his pledge to the broken
stained-glass image of Christ above the trashed altar...

					LA HIRE
		I swear I'll never swear again in my
		life if you save her life!  But I'm
		warning you, if you let her die,
		then you're the biggest...

					JEANNE
		Don't swear...

Jeanne stirs, her eyes beginning to open...

					LA HIRE
		He heard me!

					AULON
		Jeanne... we thought we'd lost you!

					JEANNE
		Not so... easily.  Why aren't you...
		fighting...?  go on... we're almost
		there...

					AULON
		Jeanne, you've been badly wounded...

					JEANNE
		No, it's... it's nothing, it's...

Speaking provokes a sudden stab of pain.  She tries to
clutch the arrow, but Aulon stops her.  He peels back her
shirt, exposing the bloody wound above her pale breast.

					GILLES
		It's an arrow, and it's in deep...

					AULON
		You must stay still till the
		physician arrives!

					LA HIRE
		Physicians are a waste of time.
		You'll have more luck with this
		charm of mine... it saved my life at
		Agincourt!

					JEANNE
		I'd sooner die than use magic!

					AULON
		Jeanne, you will die if that arrow
		stays in you much longer...

Jeanne suddenly seizes the arrow and yanks it out of her
body.  Blood spurts -- the suddenness and violence of her
action catches the men unaware, and it's a moment before
Aulon can stem the flow with his hand.  Jeanne looks at
the arrow before throwing it aside...

					JEANNE
		At least this one won't bother us
		any more.  Now let's get back to the
		fight!

She tries to get up... and collapses, grabbing Aulon...

					AULON
		Jeanne... please... you must stay
		calm... you must rest... please!

He lays her back down.  Jeanne whispers to him,
intimately.

					JEANNE
		Alright... I promise to rest if you
		promise... to go back to the battle.

					AULON
		I promise...

Jeanne smiles -- then suddenly collapses...

					LA HIRE
		Oh shit!  Jeanne... don't die!

La Hire breaks off as Raymond arrives back with the
Physician...

					AULON
		Quickly... do something!

The Physician kneels beside her and listens for any sound
of life.  All the Captains crowd closer and closer, and as
we too move closer, we hear the sound of deep breathing,
almost a snore.

					PHYSICIAN
		She's sleeping.  Like a baby.

La Hire and the others sigh with relief.


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DUSK

Dunois surveys his army's attempt to storm the English
battery.  It is now dusk, and without Jeanne the battle
has become a half-hearted affair.  He turns to a trumpeter
as Aulon comes running up...

					AULON
		Jeanne's alive!

					DUNOIS
		Good.

					AULON
		We have to press home the attack!

					DUNOIS
			   (to the Trumpeter)
		Sound the retreat...

					AULON
		But I promised Jeanne we'd fight on!

					DUNOIS
		I made no such promise.  Sound the
		retreat for the night!

					AULON
		But that was her order!

					DUNOIS
		I'm fed up with taking her orders.
		She swore she'd defeat the English
		before nightfall, instead of which
		she goes and plays the fool and gets
		herself nearly killed!  Look at the
		mess we're in!  That's her mess, not
		mine...!  We're worse off then if
		she'd never come at all!
			   (to the Trumpeter)
		... now do as I say and Sound the
		Retreat!

The Trumpeter obeys and signals the evening wrap.  The
English jeer and whistle from their impregnable battery as
the French head back up the sloping sides of the moat.


INT.  ST. AUGUSTINE MONASTERY - DUSK

Jeanne lies asleep inside the ruined church, guarded by
her two page boys.  A small fire burns nearby to keep her
warm, but she is shivering...


EXT.  ORLEANS - JEANNE'S NIGHTMARE - NIGHT

She suddenly awakes with a start, then gets up and goes to
the fire.  She kneels down... puts her hands in the
flames... and scoops up a handful of ash.  She paints her
face with the black ash, like a native warrior, then
stands back up, turning to face a small army...

					JEANNE
		My brave soldiers, do you believe in
		God?

The Army cries out "Yeesssss!"

					JEANNE
		Then let God's punishment be done:
		Eye for eye...

... and a sudden FLASH of lightning transforms some of her
men into skeletons...

					JEANNE
		... tooth for tooth...!
			   (another flash)
		... burn for burn...!
			   (another flash)
		... life for a life!

... a final FLASH, and her whole army is now a seething
swarm of SKELETONS.  With a curdling cry of vengeance they
race forward, passing either side of her...

Jeanne turns to see the skeleton army heading across a
bizarre bridge and onto the moonlit battery, flowing
either side of the 8 year-old BOY she saw in the woods as
a child.  Intrigued, Jeanne follows him, but by the time
she reaches him, the boy has disappeared.  The skeletons
have also vanished, to be replaced by an army of little
English boys in man-sized armor, heading toward a distant
figure.

The boy-soldiers are being welcomed by the beautiful MAN
Jeanne saw earlier.  He smiles at her, extending his arms
in a Christ-like gesture of embrace...

As Jeanne approaches him, others turn to welcome her --
Aulon, Dunois, Alencon... finally La Hire, holding out his
arms --

					LA HIRE
		Jeanne, come here my friend, my
		soldier... in my arms!

La Hire scoops her up into his bear-like arms and swings
her round... suddenly, over his shoulder she spots a
familiar figure:  her dead sister.

					JEANNE
		Catherine??

She breaks from La Hire and runs to Catherine, throwing
her arms around her and sobbing with joy...

					JEANNE
		Catherine... oh, Catherine -- I knew
		you wouldn't leave me...!

They stand for a moment, embracing each other, while La
Hire and the other Captains applaud Jeanne's victory.  The
beautiful young MAN approaches them, but we now see that
he has a sword clasped behind his back...

Catherine's face contorts in pain.  She slumps forward,
the sword in her back.  Beyond her, the beautiful MAN has
transformed into the grotesque Blackbeard, who roars with
laughter as Jeanne holds her dying sister...

					CATHERINE
		Avenge me... avenge me...!

A circle of fire forms around them, with skeleton soldiers
dancing in the flames...

Blackbeard's echoing laugh is gradually superimposed by
real laughter and a familiar voice...

					REDBEARD (O.S.)
		Hey... Frenchies... what happened to
		your precious angel, huh?


EXT.  TOURELLES - FRENCH CAMP - DAWN

All is quiet, the troops lie sleeping.  Redbeard calls
through the mist from the raised drawbridge spanning the
dry moat linking the battery to the French camp --

					REDBEARD
		Frenchies, you hear me?  What
		happened to your little virgin?

Jeanne is awake.  She listens to Redbeard...

					REDBEARD
		I'll tell you what happened... we
		sent her back to Hell so she can go
		fuck with the Devil!

Now Jeanne is caressing her horse while Redbeard taunts...

					REDBEARD
		What are you going to do, Frenchies?
		Why not come out and fight?  Or are
		you too busy praying to bring your
		witch back from the dead?  Do you
		hear me?

Suddenly Jeanne emerges from the mist, riding her horse
and brandishing her banner --

					JEANNE
		I hear you!  May God forgive your
		blasphemy... but I never can!

She turns and disappears back into the mist.


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DAWN

Redbeard blinks in amazement.  He turns to another
soldier --

					REDBEARD
		Go and wake up Glasdale...!


EXT.  TOURELLES - FRENCH CAMP - DAWN

Jeanne rides along the columns of sleeping soldiers...

					JEANNE
		Come on -- wake up -- sound trumpets
		and to horse!

The dazed and sleepy French drag themselves from their
straw beds.  Dunois emerges from his tent, bleary and
half-naked...

					DUNOIS
		What's going on?

					JEANNE
		We're taking back the Tourelles!


INT.  TOURELLES - TURRET ROOM - DAWN

The Guard shakes Glasdale awake...

					GLASDALE
		What's happening?

					GUARD
		My lord... the French witch just
		came back from the dead.

Glasdale hauls himself from his bed.


EXT.  TOURELLES - FRENCH CAMP - DAWN

Jeanne supervises her men as they push a huge siege tower
toward the dry moat.  She rides over to Aulon...

					JEANNE
		Get all the men to horse and ready
		to follow...

Aulon goes as Dunois hurries over...

					DUNOIS
		Jeanne, what are you doing with
		that... you've got it back to
		front...

					JEANNE
		I know what I'm doing, so either
		lend a hand or go back to bed!


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DAWN

Redbeard watches in bewilderment as the siege machine
starts to materialize through the mist...

					REDBEARD
		What the hell she's playing at...?


EXT.  TOURELLES - TURRET - DAWN

Glasdale is equally perplexed, gazing out from his garret
window across the battery.  An archer is by his side.

					GLASDALE
		Crazy bitch... she doesn't even know
		how to use it...


EXT.  TOURELLES - DRY MOAT/BATTERY - DAWN

The French wheel the enormous siege tower toward a wooden
lip above the dry moat.  The drawbridge is firmly raised
on the far side.  Redbeard's complacent expression changes
as he suddenly realizes what's about to happen...

					REDBEARD
		Oh shit...

He backs away as the machine reaches the lip.  Suddenly it
topples forward, crashing down on top of the raised
drawbridge and demolishing it beneath its enormous
weight...


EXT.  TOURELLES - TURRET - DAWN

From his elevated viewpoint, Glasdale watches in horror as
Aulon leads the French cavalry across the siege machine
bridge that now spans the dry moat, giving them access to
the battery...

					GLASDALE
		Raise the drawbridge!

The Archer passes Glasdale's order along -- a chain
message that reaches the gate-keeper, who promptly starts
to turn the winch...


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DAY

As the French swarm onto the battery, Redbeard and his
soldiers turn tail and race back toward the second
drawbridge into the Tourelles...

					REDBEARD
		Wait for me!

The bridge is already being winched up... Redbeard is the
first to reach it... with a desperate leap he manages to
grab the lip of the bridge and scramble over...


EXT.  TOURELLES - COURTYARD - DAY

... rolling down into the sanctuary of the Tourelles on
the far side.


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DAY

His comrades are less fortunate, and are slaughtered by
the advancing French.

Jeanne urges her troops forward, her white banner
billowing in the breeze, but with the drawbridge raised,
there is no way for them to enter the Tourelles.  The
English hurl fresh insults -- and bombards -- from the
battlements above, and the French are forced to take cover
behind two ruined buildings on the battery.

Jeanne rides across to a ruined barn where several carts
are stacked with felled tree-trunks.  She spots La Hire...

					JEANNE
		Prepare these as battering-rams!

					LA HIRE
		What's the use?  The drawbridge is
		up!

					JEANNE
		Not for long...

Under a hail of English arrows, Jeanne rides back across
the open battery to a ruined house on the other side.  She
sees Aulon and dismounts...

					JEANNE
		The king said you're his finest
		archer...?

					AULON
		Well...

					JEANNE
		Come with me...


INT.  RUINED HOUSE - TOURELLES - DAY

Jeanne leads Aulon through the ruined house to the far
end, where a window overlooks the river-moat that
separates the battery from the Tourelles.

					JEANNE
		You see those wooden beams...?

Jeanne points to the two beams supporting the chains of
the drawbridge further along...

					JEANNE
		I want you to set them on fire!


INT.  TOURELLES - TURRET - DAY

Glasdale spots Jeanne running back across the battery.  He
summons his Archer, pointing her out...

					GLASDALE
		Kill her.


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DAY

Jeanne leaves the ruined house and spots Gilles standing
with Alencon.  As she approaches, Gilles spots the archer
in Glasdale's window far above, taking aim.

					JEANNE
		Gilles -- fetch the Dijon Culverins
		and place them over there...

Jeanne turns her back -- the Archer fires -- Gilles holds
up his shield -- the arrow strikes it -- and Jeanne turns
back, unaware that he has just saved her life.

					JEANNE
		Clear?

					GILLES
		Perfectly.

Gilles heads off, leaving Alencon looking left out.

					ALENCON
		And me... what can I do?

					JEANNE
		Um... round up the horses and keep
		them safe...

					ALENCON
		Good idea.

Leaving Alencon to his task, Jeanne rides off...

... and THUMP!  a flaming arrow lands in one of the
drawbridge beams.


EXT.  TOURELLES - COMPLEX - DAY

An English soldier peers down to see both beams ablaze...

					SOLDIER
		Fetch some water!

The command is passed down the line -- a bucket is lowered
into the river and hauled back up -- the bucket rushed up
stone stairs to the soldier on the battlements...


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DAY

Meanwhile Jeanne returns to Dunois and La Hire --

					JEANNE
		Stand by with the battering-rams...

					DUNOIS
		We need another ten minutes...

					JEANNE
		The bridge won't wait!

					LA HIRE
		Leave it to me...

Back on the battlements, the bucket of water is passed up
to the Soldier, who tries to pour it over the edge and
onto the blazing beam.  Aulon spots him from below and
fires a flaming arrow -- it pierces the soldier, who pours
the water on himself, extinguishing the flames...


EXT.  TOURELLES - COMPLEX - DAY

TIGHT SHOTS:  hands wind the handle of a bobbin -- a
device is activated -- a lever thrown -- a grille slides
sideways...


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DAY

The beams collapse -- the support chains give way -- and
the drawbridge comes crashing down.  Beyond it is a
portcullis, but to La Hire's exuberant volunteers this is
no barrier.  Carrying buckets of flaming oil, they charge
forward...

... but as they race across the drawbridge, a sudden
volley of high-velocity arrows discharge from the lower
apertures of the portcullis, felling them before they even
get halfway across the bridge.


EXT.  TOURELLES - COMPLEX - DAY

The English cackle with delight at the sight of the dying
French writhing in the flaming oil.  Redbeard -- in charge
of the multiple balista -- orders the device to be
reloaded, then yells through the upper portcullis...

					REDBEARD
		Hey, what happened to the whore?
		Sorry... virgin!


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DAY

Dunois views the massacred soldiers lying on the bridge
amid the dying flames.  Jeanne is about to mount her
horse...

					REDBEARD
		Send her over here and she won't
		stay a virgin for long!

					DUNOIS
		Jeanne, don't do it!  Just stop and
		think for once!  Don't you see?  The
		gate's a trap... and he's the bait!

Redbeard roars with laughter as Jeanne yells back --

					JEANNE
		I take pity on your soul,
		Englishman!


EXT.  TOURELLES - COMPLEX - DAY

Redbeard checks the reloading of the balista...

					REDBEARD
		What the matter?  Frightened of a
		little English stuffing?


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DAY

Jeanne gently puts her arm around her horse's neck,
whispering to it...

					JEANNE
		We must both be brave...

She kisses it lightly, then grabs her banner from Louis,
calling out to the others --

					JEANNE
		When you see my banner touch the
		door, the fortress is ours!

... and away she rides, across the drawbridge, still piled
with the slaughtered men from the first attack.

					REDBEARD
		... and... fire!!

Another volley of arrows discharges from the portcullis
and Jeanne's horse collapses.  The English cheer...


INT.  TOURELLES - TURRET - DAY

From his garret window high above, Glasdale sees Jeanne
spread-eagled next to her dead horse on the drawbridge
below.  He turns to his servant with a grin...

					GLASDALE
		This time she won't be back.


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DAY

Aulon gapes in horror... but then suddenly Jeanne is back
up on her feet again.  Gripping her banner, she dashes
forward toward the portcullis, implanting it just as
Redbeard opens a little sliding grille -- Jeanne jabs her
banner through --


EXT.  TOURELLES - COMPLEX - DAY

... impaling Redbeard's skull on the far side!  His body
crumples to the ground, wedged between the base of the
portcullis and the balista.


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DAY

Jeanne runs back across the drawbridge, crying out...

					JEANNE
		The place is ours!


EXT.  TOURELLES - COMPLEX - DAY

Inside the Tourelles, the English try to operate the
reloaded balista.  But Redbeard's corpse is wedged so
tightly that they can't move it...


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DAY

Jeanne moves aside as La Hire and his men heave the carts
laden with tree-trunk battering-rams across the bridge...


INT.  TOURELLES - TURRET - DAY

Glasdale has seen enough...


INT.  TOURELLES - DAY

... He tears down into the courtyard, mustering soldiers
as he goes --

					GLASDALE
		To arms!  To arms!

With a triumphant battle-cry, the French charge their
battering-ram into the portcullis...


EXT.  TOURELLES - COMPLEX - DAY

... demolishing it like matchwood, then storm inside the
fortress.  Glasdale cries out to his troops --

					GLASDALE
		Soldiers... In the name of the king,
		I want you to kill these French dogs
		until there's none left!

The English troops swarm either side of the broken
portcullis, forcing most of the French back onto the
battery...


EXT.  TOURELLES - BATTERY - DAY

La Hire lets out a blood-curdling, primeval war-cry and
charges forward to meet the English wave head on.  Jeanne
is caught in the middle, buffeted from side to side by a
sea of heaving, sweating, bleeding bodies...

In this melee it is impossible to know who is friend or
foe, and the images become so blurred that we and Jeanne
are soon lost in a mist of dust and noise...


EXT.  TOURELLES - DREAM - DAY

FLASH:  our eyes are momentarily blinded by the sun... and
when we return, we find Jeanne in the middle of the
battery, but now totally alone, weaving her sword through
the air in SLOW MOTION as she once did with her stick...


EXT.  FIELD - DREAM - DAY/NIGHT

FLASH:  Jeanne is still weaving the air with her sword,
but she is now a little girl of eight, playing in the
field we first saw her in.  The small BOY looks at her,
smiling...

FLASH:  Jeanne continues to play, but is now 17, and the
boy is now a young MAN, still smiling.  He calls out to
her.

					MAN
		Jeanne... what are you doing?

					JEANNE
		Playing...

She sweeps her sword and decapitates a flower.  Blood
flows from the stalk... Jeanne looks at it, more in
childish curiosity than astonishment or horror.  She
looks at the sword, the blade now streaked with blood...

					MAN
		Jeanne... what are you doing?

Jeanne pauses, looks at him steadily... and suddenly
notices that blood is trickling down his face.  A SHAFT OF
LIGHT blazes, wind billows... and suddenly it's winter,
the trees naked, heavy with snow...

					MAN
		What have you done to me, Jeanne?

Jeanne looks horrified.  The Man puts his hands to her
face, gazing deep into her eyes...

					MAN
		What have you done to me?

					JEANNE
		I -- I -- I...


EXT.  TOURELLES - COURTYARD - DAY

Jeanne is screaming at Aulon, who is gripping her blood-
splattered face as the Man did...

					AULON
		Jeanne, calm down, do you hear me?
		Are you alright?

					JEANNE
		Yes...

					AULON
		It's over, Jeanne.  We won, just as
		you said!

Jeanne looks about her in a daze.  La Hire strides over,
arms extended, extravagant as always --

					LA HIRE
		Jeanne, come here my friend, my
		soldier... in my arms!

Jeanne starts laughing -- she can't believe it...

					JEANNE
		We... won?!

					LA HIRE
		Won?!  Such a small word will never
		do!  This is victory, Jeanne, this
		is... glory!

He scoops her up in his bear-like arms like an ebullient
lover, both laughing in the moment.  He slowly turns her
around, breathing in a great lungful of air and savoring
the smell of what Jeanne now sees over his shoulder:  the
entire courtyard, knee-deep in bodies and bits of bodies
-- including the gallant Xaintrailles.

Jeanne too can smell the reek of fresh, warm gore.  Her
laugh turns to a cry of anguish.  La Hire sets her back
down...

					LA HIRE
		Jeanne -- what's the matter??

Jeanne is utterly horrified... her legs tremble... amber
liquid trickles down her armor...

					JEANNE
		You call this... glory...?  All
		this... this blood... this smell
		of...

					LA HIRE
		... the smell of victory, Jeanne!
		Mmmmmmm!  I love it!

					JEANNE
		It's not possible...

Jeanne sees a French soldier of meager wit, hauling a
dying English soldier onto his knees for some obscure
purpose.

					GILLES
		You look disappointed... Isn't this
		what you wanted?

					JEANNE
		No... not like this...

					GILLES
		For weeks you've been asking for
		this... well now you have it!

The Soldier is about to smash the Englishman's mouth with
a mace.  Jeanne snaps out of her momentary stupor and
races across, stumbling over the dead bodies...

					JEANNE
		Stop it!  What are you doing?

					SOLDIER
		Nothing... just taking his teeth.

					JEANNE
		But you can't just kill a man for
		his teeth!

					SOLDIER
		Why not?  He has good teeth...

					JEANNE
		Because... because you just can't!

					GILLES
		Eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth...

Jeanne ignores the laconic Gilles...

					SOLDIER
		Besides, what about these...?

					JEANNE
		That's different... I mean... we
		were fighting for a... for a cause!

Gilles grins, but La Hire looks genuinely bemused at
Jeanne's behavior.  The soldier shrugs, unimpressed.

					SOLDIER
		Not me.  He's my prisoner... I can
		take his teeth if I want to...

He is about to smash the teeth...

					JEANNE
		No!

She throws herself in front of the startled Frenchman.

					JEANNE
		Take mine instead -- here -- smash
		mine first!

					LA HIRE
		Jeanne... get up... this is
		ridiculous...

					JEANNE
		If you kill him, you kill me!

					GILLES
		Jeanne... let him do it.  One more
		dead body's not going to make any
		difference, so who cares?

					JEANNE
		I care!  And I care because God
		cares!  All life is precious to God
		-- even his -- even yours and
		mine...

					LA HIRE
		Jeanne... the man hasn't been paid
		for six months -- that's his only
		reward.  Let him take a few teeth...

					JEANNE
		A few teeth... that's the price of
		his life?

					SOLDIER
		Yeah...

					JEANNE
		Here -- take this instead.

She wrenches a ring from her finger and flings it at the
soldier.

					JEANNE
		He's mine now.

Jeanne cuts the Englishman's bonds...

					JEANNE
		Now you... get out.

The English soldier doesn't wait for further prompting.
Gilles claps...

					GILLES
		Bravo!  What about all the other
		hundreds of prisoners?  Do we let
		them go too?

					JEANNE
		Maybe... I don't know... but first
		we have to confess...


INT.  AUGUSTINE MONASTERY - DAY

Jeanne marches her blood-splattered captains into the
church and up the aisle toward the rubble-strewn altar.
She sees a terrified Franciscan PRIEST and grabs hold of
him...

					JEANNE
		Please... we have to be confessed...
		all of us... now!  I know it's not
		normal custom, but sometimes... you
		know... we have to make an exception
		and... and today is an exception...

The Priest looks confounded.  Jeanne turns to the
Captains.

					JEANNE
		He's going to confess us.  Kneel!

All but La Hire kneel, although their armor is stiff at
the joints.

					LA HIRE
		Jeanne, if you don't mind... I'll
		stay standing... this armor... it's
		a nightmare to get back up...

					JEANNE
		I said, kneel!

Jeanne raises her sword and brings the flat blade whacking
against the back of his legs.  La Hire crumples, and
Jeanne turns to the Priest...

					JEANNE
		Please... we're ready... begin!

The Priest is totally lost... he begins to mumble a few
words in Latin just as a soldier burst in --

					SOLDIER
			   (breathless)
		The English... they're forming up...
		thousands of them... on the far side
		of the river...

The Captains look anxiously at Jeanne.  She hesitates a
moment, then gazes up at the battered crucifix on the
altar and closes her eyes in prayer...


EXT.  NORTH PLATEAU - ORLEANS - DAWN

Jeanne opens her eyes.  It is dawn, and two silent armies
are drawn up facing one another:  four thousand Englishmen
on the left, two thousand Frenchmen on the right.  They
have barely had time to recover from the Tourelles, and
the lust for battle is gone.  We sense that this is going
to be a blood bath that nobody wants.

Franciscan monks move among them, sprinkling them with
holy water in final absolution.  The battle lines are too
far apart for the English to see any details, but the
sight of massed soldiers kneeling before an invisible God
is an awesome spectacle.

Jeanne and the Captains are mounted, facing the English.

					DUNOIS
		Well...?  Shall we go?

					JEANNE
		Not yet.

					DUNOIS
		The English won't wait.

Jeanne hesitates...

					JEANNE
		I'll go.

					AULON
		Jeanne, no...

But Dunois silences him, indicating to Gilles that he
should accompany her.

					JEANNE
		Alone.

Dunois is again obliged to comply, and Gilles hangs back.

From the English lines, we see a small, solitary figure
emerge from the massed ranks of French soldiers.

Jeanne moves halfway between the two armies.  The English
soldiers watch her, mesmerized, while their captains
remain motionless.

In the middle of the field, Jeanne halts.  From the French
POV she looks dangerously vulnerable.  The English
commander -- TALBOT -- draws up alongside his Captains,
watching her with grey eyes and an expression of stone.
Only we see that Jeanne is crying.  She rubs the tears
away.

					JEANNE
		I have a message for your King
		Henry.  It is a message from God.

The English stand silent.

					JEANNE
		Go home... Go now, in peace.  If you
		don't go now, you will be buried in
		this field.  I've seen enough blood
		for today, but if you want more, I
		can't stop you.  I can only warn you
		that it will be your blood, not
		ours.

Talbot whispers something to one of his Captains.  He
withdraws to pass the message on.  Jeanne -- and her
French captains -- try to gauge the English mood.

					JEANNE
		I'm waiting for your answer.

Now the English Captains start moving along their flanks.
Something's about to happen.  Dunois and the French watch
in dismay as the English flanks move aside, exposing their
dreaded archers.  Jeanne closes her eyes, tears brimming.

					JEANNE
		Please, Lord... don't... don't let
		this happen... don't leave me...

The English archers take a step back, their cavalry move
slowly forward, then turn to their right, the men letting
them through.  Dunois turns to La Hire...

					DUNOIS
		Never wait for miracles.  Stand by
		to attack...

The serried ranks of English infantry close in, then halt.
We're ready for the worst, and it takes Jeanne -- and us
-- a full twenty seconds to realize what is happening:
the English are leaving.  First the cavalry, then the
infantry, finally the archers themselves.

Jeanne cannot believe her eyes.  She burst out laughing
and crying at the same time.  The French captains gape in
astonishment.  Finally La Hire can contain himself no
longer --

					LA HIRE
		By God and all the saints... now
		that's what I call a bloody miracle!

The French burst into jubilation...


INT.  CHINON CASTLE - DAY

As the cheering builds, we see a Messenger race along a
corridor and burst into the throne room.  Charles slowly
rises on hearing the joyous news, clapping his hands in
delight -- not least at the discomfort of Tremoille and
Regnault.  But Yolande shares his enthusiasm, although we
sense that the news comes as no great surprise.


INT.  ROUEN CASTLE - DAY

The cheering continues as another Messenger races along a
similar stone corridor and bursts in on the haggard Duke
of BEDFORD.  He is the English regent, and is in council
with several others, including the Bishop of Beauvais --
one Pierre CAUCHON.  As Bedford hears the news, the
cheering FADES.  He rises from his chair...

					BEDFORD
		I want that girl.  I want her
		burned.


EXT.  STREET - RHEIMS - DAY

The crowd goes wild as Jeanne rides through the streets of
Rheims, carrying her banner in triumph.  She is followed
by Aulon and her two page boys, and is accompanied by
soldiers who do their best to hold the ecstatic crowd at
bay.  At the far end of the street:  a magnificent
cathedral.


INT.  VESTRY - RHEIMS CATHEDRAL - DAY

Backstage pandemonium as Charles is readied for his
imminent coronation.  A glamorous Gilles tries to help him
into his ermine robe; Tremoille stands with Archbishop
Regnault, adjusting his gold-trimmed cloak.  An ancient
BISHOP -- palsied and pushing 80 -- stands by, hands
a-trembling.

					CHARLES
		It's too tight -- where's the
		seamstress?  And that...
			   (pointing to crown)
		... that's meant to be a crown?
		Don't you have something more --
		more regal?

A young Priest is holding the dowdy crown...

					PRIEST
		The English took the real one...

					CHARLES
		I asked for a grandiose coronation,
		and this is what you give me?  This
		whole thing's going to be a complete
		fiasco...!

					BISHOP
		Sire, we were only given three days
		to prepare -- three days! -- Why,
		your father's coronation took three
		months!

Charles turns to Tremoille --

					CHARLES
		He's probably right -- let's call a
		delay...

					TREMOILLE
		There's no time, sire -- we can't
		hold up the ceremony... there's no
		telling when the English might come
		back... they're only ten leagues
		away...

					CHARLES
		Let them come!  Let them see who's
		the true king of France!

Further away, Dunois is examining himself in a looking-
glass.  He is standing with Gilles de Rais, both
resplendent in their armor, now cleaned and polished...

					DUNOIS
		It's been muddy for so long, I
		forgot how good it looked when
		cleaned up...

					LA HIRE
		Did you remember to clean up what's
		inside as well?

Dunois ribs him with his elbow, both laughing.  In another
corner, Alencon is fast asleep.

Charles is still grumbling...

					CHARLES
		Those damn English... we should be
		doing this in Paris... in Notre Dame
		-- much more prestigious -- and
		twice as big as this one!

Yolande, who has been standing quietly in the shadows with
Richmond, steps forward...

					YOLANDE
		It is the sacred place that matters,
		Charles -- not the size.  Am I
		correct, Bishop?

					BISHOP
		Oh yes, my lady.  All true kings of
		France must first be anointed in our
		great cathedral of Rheims... with
		the holy oil of Clovis... for it was
		within these very walls that Saint
		Remy received the sacred oil from
		Heaven, brought to him by a white
		dove for the anointing of King
		Clovis...

					TREMOILLE
		Yes, yes -- well let's just get on
		with it, shall we?

					GILLES
		... before the English turn up and
		spoil everything.

					CHARLES
		They wouldn't dare!

					GILLES
		I wouldn't be so sure.  It only
		takes one of them -- in disguise --

Gilles pulls a sharp dagger -- Charles looks petrified...

					GILLES
		... with a good dagger... that's all
		it takes...

Gilles lifts the dagger... and snips a loose thread from
Charles's shoulder...

					GILLES
		... to ruin the whole thing.

Gilles sheaths his dagger, but Charles is now panicking.
He glances at those around him as though one of them might
be a spy.  Gilles moves away, and Charles turns to his
pages --

					CHARLES
		Hurry up!

Further away, the Bishop's assistant Canon hurries in,
holding a small jar --

					CANON
		Your Grace, there can be no
		anointing!

					BISHOP
		What in heaven's name are you
		talking about?

					CANON
		The holy oil of Clovis -- it's all
		gone!

The ancient Archbishop can scarcely believe his ears.  He
peers inside the little jar just as Yolande arrives with
Richmond...

					BISHOP
		Gone??  But that's impossible --
		it's magic oil... I mean miraculous
		oil -- it can never be exhausted...

					CANON
		Look for yourself!

The Canon offers it to the Bishop, but Yolande
intervenes...

					YOLANDE
		Problem?

He hands her the little jar...

					BISHOP
		I don't understand... the holy oil
		of Clovis... it was quite full the
		last time I saw it...

					YOLANDE
		And when was that?

					BISHOP
		Well... at the coronation of King
		Charles VI...

					YOLANDE
		Thirty years ago?  I'm not surprised
		it's gone...

					BISHOP
		No no, you don't understand -- this
		is no ordinary oil -- this is
		miraculous... this oil was brought
		from heaven by a white dove to crown
		King Clovis in this... very...
		cathedral...

Yolande has moved away, to be replaced by the hideously-
scarred Richmond.  The Bishop's voice trails as he sees
Yolande beyond him, taking an oil lamp from the wall and
pouring a little oil into the jar.

					BISHOP
		W-w-what are you doing?!

					YOLANDE
		Performing a miracle.

Richmond curtails any protest with a toothy grin.

There's a growing SOUND of excitement coming from beyond.
Finally Jeanne appears in the doorway, carrying her banner
and followed by her faithful page boys, Louis and Raymond.
La Hire nudges Alencon awake as she passes, giving an
admiring whistle.

					CHARLES
		Ah, Jeanne... come here...!  This
		whole coronation idea of yours is a
		fiasco... nothing is ready...

					JEANNE
		... You look wonderful...

					CHARLES
		... and my crown doesn't fit and...
			   (breaking off)
		Really??

She looks up and down, appraising him...

					JEANNE
		You look like a king.

Charles melts.  TRUMPETS SOUND from the great Cathedral
beyond...


INT.  RHEIMS CATHEDRAL - DAY

Two tiers of boys sing in plainsong as Charles enters
through a small door and into the vastness of the crowded
Cathedral.  It is filled to capacity, with Jeanne's
comrades-in-arms filling the front pews like eager fans,
straining for a glimpse of her.

Tremoille waddles behind Charles, with Regnault, Yolande
and Richmond in tow.  Next, the two page boys -- and then
at last the main attraction as far as this congregation is
concerned -- the crowd lets out an audible gasp as Jeanne
enters in her white armor, carrying her proud, war-scarred
banner and escorted by Jean d'Aulon.

La Hire is so moved at the sight that he has to wipe away
big soppy tears (for sentimentality was ever the flip-side
of cruelty).  Alencon and Dunois likewise gaze at their
adored one, though Gilles is perhaps more taken with the
cherubic choir boys...

Jeanne trembles with emotion.  This is the peak of her
career, and she knows it, and she's making the most of it.
As the little procession reaches the nave, all but Charles
filter aside.  He walks forward alone to where Archbishop
Regnault is standing -- a few paces -- then stops, turns
-- and holds out his hands to Jeanne.

The crowd gasp with approval at the unprecedented
gesture... La Hire briefly claps, before being dug in the
ribs by Gilles... but the kingly act provokes jealous
looks from Regnault and Tremoille...

Jeanne hesitates, then is almost willed on by the crowd
into joining Charles.  She stands a little aside as he
kneels.  Regnault sprinkles the Holy Oil on his
sovereign's head...

					REGNAULT
		With this sacred oil, blessed by the
		hand of God the Father Almighty, we
		do anoint thee Charles Valois...

Regnault breaks off:  there's a commotion at the back of
the cathedral.  Charles looks around -- anxious faces turn
-- soldiers draw their swords -- is it the English??

Bored by the ceremony, young Louis has been kicking legs
again, and one of the guards is nursing a bruised shin.
With all eyes suddenly upon him, Louis flushes -- and is
quickly taken in hand by Yolande.  After the brief
interruption, Regnault continues...

					REGNAULT
		... we do anoint thee Charles
		Valois, Sovereign Lord and King of
		this great kingdom of France,
		charging that ye defend the faith of
		our Mother Holy Church so long as ye
		shall live...

It could almost be the marriage ceremony.  Jeanne watches
in tears, trembling with emotion as the Archbishop takes
the crown and holds it above Charles' head, then slowly,
slowly lowers it...

As he does so, an eerie SOUND, like a bullet in slow-
motion coming straight at us... followed by a cry from
Jeanne...


EXT.  PARIS WALLS - ST. DENIS - DAY

Jeanne gasps -- sways...

Torrential rain, sweeping across the grey, mud-filled moat
in great curtains.  She's standing on the bank above the
moat, looking across at the massive city walls where
ladders have been set up.  Aulon catches up with her...

					AULON
		Jeanne...!  Are you alright?

					JEANNE
		Yes.  Yes, I'm fine...
			   (yelling out)
		We need more brushwood!
			   (to Aulon)
		Why are you staring at me like that?

					AULON
		Because there's an arrow in your leg.

She looks down and there it is, poking out her leg:  an
arrow has penetrated her armor.

					JEANNE
		So there is...

She hadn't realized -- and doesn't seem that bothered.

					JEANNE
		... but that's no reason for you to
		stop.  You can still climb a ladder,
		can't you?  So go on then... climb!

Aulon looks across at the endless ladders, disappearing
into the mist and smoke at the top of the gigantic wall.
Jeanne calls out to her page, Raymond --

					JEANNE
		Raymond!  Over here!

Raymond hurries over...

					JEANNE
		Pull it out.

Raymond looks terrified --

					JEANNE
		Pull it out!

Raymond grips the arrow while Jeanne gazes across at one
of the ladders laden with Frenchmen.  As he pulls it out,
the ladder falls back, plunging the soldiers to their
deaths.  Jeanne gasps in pain...

La Hire and Gilles are further along the bank...

					GILLES
		This is no good!

					LA HIRE
		No good?  This is a disaster!

Gilles stumbles along the bank to Jeanne...

					GILLES
		Jeanne... The men are exhausted!

					JEANNE
		I know, but so is the enemy --
		they're falling back -- Paris is
		ours...!

					GILLES
		Jeanne... we're not enough...

					JEANNE
		So... bring up the reinforcements!

					GILLES
		Reinforcements?  Where??

Jeanne waves vaguely behind her --

					JEANNE
		Right behind us -- Dunois with
		another then thousand men!

					GILLES
		Jeanne, look behind you.

					JEANNE
		Never look behind -- only ahead!

Gilles grips her by the shoulders, forcing her to turn and
look behind.  At most, a hundred bedraggled soldiers,
limping amid the carnage in the moat.  Jeanne stares at
them.

					GILLES
		Do you know how to count?

					JEANNE
		Of course I do?  Bring them up!

					GILLES
		Jeanne... that is not ten thousand
		reinforcements -- that is one
		hundred very loyal but very tired
		soldiers.

					JEANNE
		But... where is Dunois... where are
		the men the king promised me?

					GILLES
		He never sent them... Don't you
		understand?  He doesn't want this
		war anymore... he has his crown now,
		that's all he ever wanted...

					JEANNE
		But my voices... they promised me...

					GILLES
		To hell with your voices -- it's
		time to face facts!  We have nothing
		to do here... none of us... not even
		you.  You should go home, Jeanne.

Jeanne stares at them, in shock.

					JEANNE
		You don't believe me anymore?

					LA HIRE
		We still believe in you, Jeanne.  If
		it were up to me, I'd chase every
		goddamn Englishman into the ocean.
		But it's not up to us anymore --
		it's up to the king...

Jeanne looks at him, suddenly furious --


INT.  CHINON CASTLE - CORRIDORS - DAY

-- Jeanne storms along a corridor, her two page boys doing
their best to catch up with her...


INT.  CHINON CASTLE - CHAMBER - DAY

She bursts in on Charles, who is cavorting in a bath-tub
with a few frivolous females.

					CHARLES
		Well, this is an unexpected
		pleasure.  Ladies, let me introduce
		you to the celebrated Jeanne...

The damsels titter...

					JEANNE
		Get them out of here!

					CHARLES
		Now hold on -- you're not captain
		here... on the battlefield perhaps,
		but not in the royal bedchamber!

					JEANNE
		Why did you betray me?  Paris was
		ours for the taking!  All I needed
		was another few hundred men... Why
		did you take back the army you gave
		me?

					CHARLES
		Gave you?  Well now, I wouldn't
		quite put it like that...

					JEANNE
			   (bluntly)
		So how would you put it?

					CHARLES
		Well... we are, of course,
		enormously grateful for your past
		efforts, but your task is done.  Now
		it's time for negotiation... and
		after many months of skillful work,
		our dear Tremoille is about to seal
		a treaty with our Burgundian friends
		who will no longer lend their
		support to the English.  You see, my
		dear Jeanne... as it is written in
		the Bible, "to everything there is a
		season:  a time for war, and a time
		for peace"...

					JEANNE
		Peace will only be got from the
		English at the end of a lance!

					CHARLES
		Why do you have to be so
		bloodthirsty?  Do you enjoy it?  All
		that blood and noise and pain?
		Diplomacy is far more civilized...
		far safer... and far cheaper...

Jeanne angrily holds out a fistful of letters --

					JEANNE
		I have letters here from towns under
		siege -- Compiegne, Provins, Melin
		-- where the people are starving,
		begging God on their knees to help
		them... and I'm here to answer their
		prayers -- and you want to stop me?
		France does not belong to you,
		Charles -- she belongs to God.  And
		if you won't help me save her, I
		shall do it alone!

Jeanne slings the letters in his face and marches out of
the room.  Charles turns to the girls with a weary sigh.

					CHARLES
		If only she would just go home.


INT.  CORRIDOR - CHINON - DAY

Aulon reaches the door to a chapel to find it guarded by
Louis and Raymond.

					RAYMOND
		You can't go in.

					AULON
		Get out...!


INT.  CHAPEL - CHINON - DAY

Aulon enters to find Jeanne crumpled by the altar.  He
kneels beside her.

					AULON
		Jeanne... the king has ordered us
		not to ride with you anymore.

					JEANNE
		So... what am I supposed to do now?

Aulon hesitates.

					AULON
		What do your voices say?

Jeanne pauses... a long moment, whether or not to confide.
Finally, and with a bleakness not sensed in her before...

					JEANNE
		They've abandoned me... like
		everyone.

					AULON
		What... what do you mean?

					JEANNE
		It's been weeks since they spoke to
		me.  Since the coronation... no
		signs... nothing...

					AULON
		Maybe their silence is a sign...?
		Maybe it's a sign to go home?

					JEANNE
		It's not time yet.  My mission is
		not over yet.  There is still more I
		must do before I can really --
		finally -- go home.

					AULON
		But how do you know that these --
		these voices aren't really just --
		well, you.

Jeanne stares at him in bemusement -- then suddenly
laughs...

					JEANNE
		Well of course they're me!  That's
		how God talks to me.  If you listen
		hard enough, even you can hear him.
		Everyone can hear him.

					AULON
		But I hear so many voices... one
		voice saying one thing, another
		voice saying the opposite -- love
		your enemy, kill your enemy -- what
		is good, what is evil...?

					JEANNE
		All you have to do is stop talking
		and just listen.

					AULON
		But how do you know what you hear is
		the truth?

					JEANNE
		I don't know it.  I feel it.

					AULON
		You make it sound so simple...

					JEANNE
		The truth is always simple... it's
		you, Jean, who's making things
		complicated.

					AULON
		Me?!  It's not me, it's God who
		makes everything complicated!  If
		he's all-powerful, why not let the
		English stay on their island in the
		first place?  And why let this war
		go on for a hundred years?  And why
		send you out to fight when a girl
		like you should be at home with your
		family?  Why, why?!

					JEANNE
		So... even you don't believe in me
		anymore...

					AULON
		Jeanne... I believe in you... more
		than anyone...

Aulon's hand touches Jeanne's hair.  He leans forward, as
though being drawn by her eyes and mouth...

					AULON
		I... I just wish I could... I want
		to... to help you...

The moment is a little too intense.  They gaze at each
other, then Jeanne suddenly pulls away...

					JEANNE
		If you really want to help me,
		there's one thing you can do.

					AULON
		Tell me...

					JEANNE
		Tell the king to give me more men.

Jeanne goes, leaving Aulon alone, deliberating.


EXT.  CHINON - DAY

Jeanne and her pages mount their horses and ride off...


INT.  CHAMBERS - CHINON - DAY

Aulon walks through a small antechamber and is about to
knock at a door when he pauses, hearing familiar voices.

					TREMOILLE (O.S.)
		We have to stop her, your majesty.
		If she raises her own army and
		attacks the Burgundians at
		Compiegne, all my months of painful
		negotiations will have been in vain!

Aulon draws closer, shocked at what he hears...

					REGNAULT (O.S.)
		Tremoille is right.  She behaves as
		though she were God!  It's high time
		she found out who's really in
		command.


INT.  KING'S CHAMBERS - CHINON - DAY

Regnault, Tremoille and Yolande coil about Charles like
serpents.  Charles looks at them all.

					CHARLES
		It's true.  There's only one king...
		people need to be reminded of that.
		Nevertheless... Jeanne has done so
		much for us...

					YOLANDE
		I assure you, Charles, the Maiden
		has no greater admirer than myself.
		But whatever our personal feelings,
		we cannot allow her to conduct her
		own private war.  For the sake of
		the kingdom, it is imperative that
		you stop her going to Compiegne...

					CHARLES
		I... I can't stop her.

					TREMOILLE
		Well if you don't, I'm sure the
		Burgundians will be happy to oblige.
		If they capture her at Compiegne...

					REGNAULT
		... no one can blame us.

					CHARLES
		I... I don't know... it'll sound
		like we... betrayed her...?

					TREMOILLE
		Noooo!

					REGNAULT
		Good heavens no!

					TREMOILLE
		Never!

					YOLANDE
		Don't worry, Charles.  If God is
		still with her, she will be
		victorious.  We're not her judges...
		we're just spectators.  Let her go
		to Compiegne, as you let her go to
		Orleans, and let God decide her
		fate.

					CHARLES
		But... her army's so small now...

					YOLANDE
		Then her faith will have to be
		bigger.

Yolande gives Richmond a significant look.


INT.  CHAMBERS - CHINON - DAY

Aulon can scarcely believe what he has heard!


INT.  AULON'S ROOM - CHINON CASTLE - DAY

A table smashes against a stone wall... a chair splinters
in fragments.  Aulon is in a frenzy, smashing up
furniture.


EXT.  CHINON CASTLE - DAY

Aulon rides out from the castle...


EXT.  FOREST CLEARING - DAY

Jeanne and her meager band of soldiers have paused for
food.  Aulon makes his way through the trees -- and finds
Jeanne a little apart from the others, with her two page
boys...

					AULON
		Jeanne... I need to speak to you.
			   (pointedly)
		Alone.

Jeanne glances at him a moment, then nods for Louis and
Raymond to leave.

					JEANNE
		Did the king listen to you?

Aulon blushes... clears his throat...

					AULON
		Jeanne, I... I love you, Jeanne.  I
		love you and... I want to marry you.

Jeanne is a little taken aback, but is genuinely touched.

					JEANNE
		That's not what I asked... Why do
		you want to marry me?

					AULON
		You listen to your voices, I listen
		to my heart.

Jeanne looks at him a beat.

					JEANNE
		What did the king say?

					AULON
		He said that... he's making a treaty
		with the Duke of Burgundy and...

					JEANNE
		It's a trap!  They're buying time
		till they can bring over more
		soldiers from England!

					AULON
		Did your voices tell you that?  You
		told me you hadn't heard them for
		months...

					JEANNE
		No, but...

					AULON
		Or maybe it's Jeanne who's in a trap
		-- her own trap -- a downward spiral
		that she can't stop?

					JEANNE
		Did you come back to marry me or to
		insult me?

					AULON
		To marry you.

A beat... then she looks away.

					JEANNE
		I will ask my voices... if they come
		back one day.  Meanwhile... I'm
		going to Compiegne.

					AULON
		Jeanne... I have been hearing voices
		-- and believe me, those voices left
		me in no doubt that you must not go
		to Compiegne!

She looks at him a moment, knowing that he speaks the
truth.

					AULON
		Jeanne... I believe in you -- but
		can you believe in me for once?
		Don't go... even if you don't want
		to marry me.

					JEANNE
		I would like to marry you.  But I
		have already promised myself... to
		God.

					AULON
		But... you've done so much for God
		as it is... can't you do something
		for yourself for once -- for Jeanne?

					JEANNE
		But it is what I want.

					AULON
		To be killed in battle?

					JEANNE
		If God wants me to win, he will find
		a way.  And if he wants me to die...
		if he wants me back... then that's
		fine too.  Then I'll be with him
		forever.

She has a dreamy, faraway look -- one with which Aulon
cannot compete.

					AULON
		Will you at least let me stay with
		you?

					JEANNE
		It would not be the same without
		you.


EXT.  COMPIEGNE - BATTLEFIELD - DAY

SHARP CUT to a Man being felled by a cudgel.  We are in
the middle of the battle, and things are not going well
for the French.  The citizens and their MAYOR watch
anxiously from the draw-bridge and the town walls.  Nearby
stands a familiar face:  the battle-scarred Richmond.  The
Mayor and Richmond exchange a glance that chills...

Jeanne is struggling to keep her banner aloft... then a
cry from close by, and to her horror she sees Raymond
collapse with an arrow in his breast.  His faithful
companion Louis races to his side, throwing his arms
around him.

Jeanne jumps down from her horse, but by the time she
reaches him, his eyes are closed.  Louis looks up at her,
tears brimming.  Aulon rides up alongside Jeanne...

					AULON
		We must sound the retreat!

					JEANNE
		Not yet!

With the enemy bearing down, there's no time to pause...


EXT.  COMPIEGNE - WALLS & POV OF BATTLEFIELD - DAY

From high on the town walls, the Mayor surveys the distant
battle.  Richmond is standing a short distance away.  He
gives him a sign.  The Mayor turns to a Guard.

					MAYOR
		I can't risk the town's safety.
		Raise the drawbridge.


EXT.  COMPIEGNE - BATTLEFIELD - DAY

As Jeanne rides back with Aulon, she spots Richmond beyond
the drawbridge inside the town.  There's a brief exchange
between them, a locking of eyes.  Jeanne turns to Aulon...

					JEANNE
		Get back inside the town and see if
		the English are attacking from the
		other side!

					AULON
		But... why... what's the point?

					JEANNE
		Do as I say!

					AULON
		I want to stay with you...

					JEANNE
		That's an order!

Aulon looks almost shocked.  He backs away, then turns his
horse about and rides back across the drawbridge and into
the town.  Seconds later, the drawbridge begins to rise,
and Jeanne is trapped.

She tries to fight her way clear of the advancing English,
but they encircle her.  She lashes out with the flat of
her sword, trying to keep their swords and lances at bay.
The noose tightens -- her horse starts to panic... but
strangely there's a smile on her face, as though she sees
the end coming, this end that she so desires:  to die on a
battlefield in penance for the blood shed in her name.

Suddenly a BOLT slices through BONE --

-- and Jeanne's horse collapses from under her.  She rolls
to the ground, springing back to her feet as the English
close in.  Again she flays the air with her sword, but it
becomes heavier and heavier as her energy finally begins
to drain.

A huge iron ball smashes her sword in two -- now she has
no weapon but her fists.  Yet still she lashes out, like
a fox cornered by hounds.  Another blow -- she falls to
the ground, her face gazing up.  Her eyes soften, and
again that smile --

Her POV:  High above the dust and smoke and flame of
battle -- a little patch of blue...


EXT.  FIELD - SUMMER - DAY

... and Jeanne falls into the field of her childhood.

					JEANNE
		My Lord...

-- the sky brightens -- the SUN dazzles -- space/time
dilates... with her arms wide open, Jeanne offers herself
to the skies --

					JEANNE
		Take me...!

Nature starts to consume her, integrating her as a part of
the whole... clouds, seasons and wind become one in an
apocalyptic ballet... grass, flowers and roots consume
her... the camera suddenly pulls back so fast and far that
within seconds the earth has become a revolving sphere in
the darkness of space...

FLASH:  the sphere now becomes a four-dimensional torus, a
fluid, dynamic ring, evolving in and out of space...

FLASH:  the torus blinks, and the dark center becomes a
BLUE EYE, the same diameter as Jeanne's.  overwhelmed by
this vision.  A shadow of a MAN clutching a mace is
reflected in the blueness...

SHARP CUT to the Man as he slams her... WHAM!

BLACK.  Then a zillion stars evolve from the darkness,
slowly rotating inversely toward a central point as though
returning to the origin of space/time in one single
dimensionless point of light -- which then suddenly
EXPLODES...

At the same moment a HUGE EYE blinks open -- the EYE of
Jeanne...


INT.  COMPIEGNE - PRISON - NIGHT

Jeanne's eyes search a darkness that gradually resolves
into the grim, dank confines of a dungeon.  She sits bolt
upright, as though awakening from a nightmare.

She is on a wooden bed, her face bruised and tumefied.  A
few inches away is a MAN, one side of his shaved head
catching a sliver of light.  He's laughing at her.

					MAN
		I can't believe it... your romantic
		vision of death, with all that grass
		growing everywhere... I must admit,
		you have a great imagination.  Or
		maybe not great enough.  Death is
		much more simple...

FLASH:  A dead body lying in the silent forest, a trickle
of blood running from his mouth...

					MAN
		... after a few months it gets more
		interesting...

FLASH:  Same shot, only now the body is wriggling...

FLASH:  The body is now reduced to skin and bones...

					MAN
		... then -- after a year -- it
		finally becomes romantic...

FLASH:  The same spot in the forest, but now there is no
sign of the body.

Jeanne shakes her head...

					JEANNE
		Who... who are you...?

					MAN
		I am that I am.
			   (beat)
		You don't like my face?
			   (evidently not)
		Maybe you prefer this one...

His face melts into the little boy, sitting on a throne in
the middle of the wood.  She gazes at him in
bewilderment --

					MAN
		Too young maybe?  How about this one?

The boy becomes the young man she saw in the forest.
Jeanne is breathless.  The Man is invading her most secret
memories.

					MAN
		Better, no...?  But incomplete.

Suddenly his face is flooded with blood, like the image of
the man she saw during the battle of Orleans...

Jeanne SCREAMS, covering her face...

					JEANNE
		Get thee behind me.  Satan!

The Man smiles, unaffected by her outburst.

					MAN
		Who are you to even think you can
		know the difference between good and
		evil?  Are you God?

					JEANNE
		No... no... I'm just a messenger...
		He needs me... a higher calling...

Suddenly the man starts to bellow -- the walls tremble --
the bellow becomes a roar... clouds boil behind his
head...

					MAN
		HOW CAN YOU BEGIN TO IMAGINE THAT
		GOD, THE CREATOR OF HEAVEN AND
		EARTH, THE SOURCE OF ALL LIFE, COULD
		POSSIBLY NEED -- YOU?

Jeanne can no longer stop her tears...

					JEANNE
		I don't know... I thought...

					MAN
		YOU THINK GOD ISN'T BIG ENOUGH TO
		DELIVER HIS OWN MESSAGES?

					JEANNE
		I don't know... please... tell me
		I'm dead...

					MAN
		WHO ARE YOU TO DECIDE IF YOU SHOULD
		LIVE OR DIE?

					JEANNE
		I... don't know... what do you want
		from me?

					MAN
		Nothing.  I'm here to set you
		free...

The Man holds up his hand as though in judgment --

A hand slams across her face --

-- and she wakes up, nursing her hot cheek.  In front of
her:  the rough English guard who just struck her.

					GUARD
			   (angrily)
		I said, smile!  You have visitors.

The door opens, and a smart delegation arrives in her
cell, led by a thin reed of a man, the Duke of BURGUNDY
and his right-arm, DIJON.

					GUARD
		His Grace the Duke of Burgundy.

Jeanne stares at him, confused...

					BURGUNDY
		So... here is the famous Jeanne...
		Savior of Orleans... terror of the
		English?  You look pretty ordinary
		to me...

					JEANNE
		Am I... am I dead?

					BURGUNDY
		Dead you're worthless, darling.

					JEANNE
		Where... where am I?

					BURGUNDY
		Guess.

She looks about her dismal confines...

					JEANNE
		My king will pay any ransom you ask.

					BURGUNDY
		Your king?  Ah yes, of course...
		What's he going to pay me with?
		Cows?  Chickens?  I prefer gold, and
		the English have plenty.  I wonder
		how much they'll pay... to have the
		Witch of Orleans in their clutches?
		Those English are so arrogant, they
		can't accept the idea of being
		defeated by a peasant girl... it has
		to have been the devil's work.

					JEANNE
		God defeated the English, not me.

					BURGUNDY
		And God who allowed you to be
		caught?

Jeanne hadn't thought about that before.

					BURGUNDY
		Personally I don't believe in God,
		and I don't believe in the Devil
		either.  That's why I'm never
		disappointed.
			   (to Dijon)
		Sell her.


INT.  CHINON CASTLE - DAY

Aulon goes to see the King in his chamber and hands him a
heavy sack.  Tremoille and Regnault are present, as
always.

					AULON
		Here... to help pay Jeanne's ransom.
		All the Captains gave what they
		could, as well as the citizens of
		Orleans and the other towns she
		saved...

					CHARLES
		Very generous of you all.  How much?

					AULON
		10,000 gold crowns.

From their expressions, this is clearly an enormous
amount.

					CHARLES
		10,000... that's a lot... but I fear
		not enough.  But it will be my
		pleasure to make up the difference.
			   (to Archbishop
			    Regnault)
		Your Grace... I place you in charge
		of this... sensitive negotiation.


INT.  OFFICE - DUKE OF BURGUNDY'S CASTLE - DAY

Burgundy's right-arm -- DIJON -- turns to his Assistant.

					DIJON
		They send a Bishop to negotiate?
		That's a good sign.  Let him in.

It is not Archbishop Regnault who enters, but another
ecclesiastic swaddled in the rich robes of his office:
the Bishop of Beauvais, one Pierre CAUCHON.

					CAUCHON
		Good day, sir.  I trust my honorable
		Duke of Burgundy is feeling well?

					DIJON
		He's feeling wonderful.

					CAUCHON
		Thanks be to God.

					DIJON
		And your Duke?  The Duke of Bedford?

					CAUCHON
		Not so well, I regret to say.  This
		business with the Maiden... it's
		caused him endless grief and
		torment.  That's why he's entrusted
		me with the task of... shall we
		say...

					DIJON
		Buying her?

					CAUCHON
		This word is -- regrettably
		appropriate for the situation.  In
		fact what we -- the Church -- wish
		to do is determine whether or not
		this girl is sent by God, as she
		claims.  You understand that we
		cannot allow just anybody to abuse
		God's name in this manner...

					DIJON
		I understand.  How much?

It is that other man of the cloth, Regnault, who answers.

					REGNAULT
		5,000 gold crowns.

					DIJON
		That's not a lot.

					REGNAULT
		It is all his majesty can afford.
		He has even donated his very own
		personal savings.  His majesty will
		greatly appreciate a gesture of good
		will in this delicate negotiation
		between our two families.

					DIJON
		I know... but the English want her
		very badly, and I have to tell you
		that they are proving much more
		generous.

					REGNAULT
		May I, without offending you,
		inquire how generous?

					DIJON
		20,000 gold crowns.

Regnault's rival cleric Cauchon looks aghast.

					CAUCHON
		20,000?!  But... I heard King
		Charles was... financially
		embarrassed.

					DIJON
		Don't look at the cost, look at what
		it brings.  What is your last offer?

					REGNAULT
		8,000.  We can't raise more... We
		can only place ourselves at the
		mercy of your generosity.

					DIJON
		I must offer to the Duke.  I will
		give you his answer tomorrow.


INT.  PRISON CELL - BEAUREVOIR - DAY

A Burgundian Soldier shakes Jeanne to wake her up.

					SOLDIER
		Hey, wake up... get yourself
		ready... you're leaving!

Jeanne opens her eyes as Cauchon enters her cell, dressed
in ecclesiastical robes.  He stands in front of her,
flanked by two monks.  At the sigh of the churchmen, she
brightens.

					JEANNE
		Oh, thank you Lord!
			   (to Cauchon)
		I'm so glad to see you!  I need to
		confess... I haven't been confessed
		since Easter... or been to Mass...
		Will you hear me now?

					CAUCHON
		I will hear you... but not now, not
		here.

					JEANNE
		Who are you?

					CAUCHON
		Pierre Cauchon, Bishop of Beauvais.
		As you were captured in my diocese,
		the duty of conducting the trial
		falls upon me.

					JEANNE
		Trial?  What trial??

					CAUCHON
		Your trial, Jeanne.  On a charge of
		heresy.

					JEANNE
		But... the King -- my king -- didn't
		he pay my ransom?

					CAUCHON
		It seems that the English care more
		about you than the French.

					JEANNE
		The English??

					CAUCHON
		Yes.  They paid your ransom...
		tomorrow you will be transferred to
		their great castle at Rouen.

The door slams shut, and she is left alone.  Jeanne is
utterly distraught.  She looks round the bleak cell, then
moves over to a small window... just wide enough for her
to squeeze through.


EXT.  LEDGE - BEAUREVOIR - NIGHT

Jeanne clambers out onto a narrow ledge, high above the
frozen moat below.  Only a fool -- or one bent on suicide
-- would hazard such a leap.

					VOICE (O.S.)
		Need some help?

The Man we saw after Compiegne is once again behind her.

					JEANNE
		What are you doing out here?

					MAN
		I might ask you the same question.

					JEANNE
		I... I'm leaving... I can't take
		anymore...

					MAN
		And what exactly is it that you
		can't take anymore of?

					JEANNE
		Everything!  Prison -- humiliation
		-- being abandoned and betrayed by
		everyone -- I can't stand it anymore
		-- I'd rather die!

					MAN
		You'll be dead soon enough anyway,
		so why be in such a hurry?  Why not
		face up to your lies?  It's your
		lies you can't stand anymore...

					JEANNE
		I... I never lied!

					MAN
		If you were true to yourself... if
		your faith was firm, you wouldn't
		need to run away from yourself like
		this...

					JEANNE
		I am true -- to my Lord, the King of
		Heaven.  He knows how much I love
		him -- that's all that matters to
		me...

					MAN
		How can you pretend that you love
		God when you're about to throw away
		the most precious thing he gave you?
		Life is a gift, you should know that
		by now Jeanne -- a gift from God.
		You know what He'd say to you, if He
		was here?  "What are you doing to
		me, Jeanne?"

Jeanne is lost, exhausted, numbed.  She gazes into the
void, contemplating the fall...

					JEANNE
		You're right... I shouldn't do that.

The Man suddenly pushes her so that she nearly falls...

					MAN
		That's too easy.  One minute you
		want to die, the next you want to
		live...
			   (again pushes her)
		Do you think that life is a toy that
		can be played with and then broken
		when you don't want it anymore?

					JEANNE
		No, no... I'm just so tired, and
		lost, and... I didn't realize what I
		was doing!

He pushes her again...

					MAN
		Oh?  And just because you realize
		now, everybody else should forgive
		you?!

					JEANNE
		I don't know -- I don't care anymore
		-- I just want to be at peace!

					MAN
		Oh, so you don't want war anymore?
		You want to be at peace?  You want
		to be able to change your mind
		anytime you feel like it and expect
		everyone to go along with it?

					JEANNE
		I don't understand.  What do you
		want from me?

					MAN
		I told you already... I'm here to
		set you free...

Again the Man pushes her!  This time she loses her
balance, and with a startled cry falls from the ledge --
plunging down, down -- and crashing into the frozen
moat...!

Two castle GUARDS on watch are alerted by the SOUND of
splintering ice...

Jeanne is drowning, barely able to cling to the broken ice
around her.  The first Guard to reach the moat tests the
surface with his foot...

					GUARD #2
		Don't try -- you'll fall through!

The First Guard lies flat to spread his weight, then
crawls toward Jeanne...

					GUARD #1
		Good God, it's the prisoner!

The Second Guard glances up at the tower ledge far
above...

					GUARD #2
		If she jumped from up there, she's
		dead for sure!  forget it...

The First Guard reaches the edge of the hole just as
Jeanne disappears beneath the water.  He plunges in his
hand and grabs her hair, pulling her head back above the
water...


INT.  CORRIDOR - CHINON CASTLE - DAWN

Aulon races along castle corridors until he reaches a
door, guarded by two burly Guards...

					GUARD
		The king is occupied...!

					AULON
		Out of my way!


INT.  THRONE ROOM - CHINON CASTLE - DAY

Aulon bursts into the room to find Charles, Regnault and
Tremoille in conversation...

					CHARLES
		My dear Aulon...
			   (dismissing Guards)
		That's fine...

					AULON
		Jeanne's been badly injured!  She
		jumped from the top of a tower into
		a frozen moat!

Charles shivers at the thought.

					CHARLES
		It's a miracle she's not dead!

					AULON
		We have to do something before she
		tries it again!  I beg of you, my
		lord, don't let her down... let me
		organize an escape...

					CHARLES
		Jean, it's... it's not so easy...

					AULON
		But not impossible... Gilles and La
		Hire are ready to risk everything to
		save her...

					CHARLES
		Jean... me dear, loyal Jean... why
		do you want to oppose the will of
		God?  Jeanne wanted to go to
		Compiegne -- we let her -- she got
		caught.  Then, on my personal
		orders, Regnault proposed 30,000
		crowns for her ransom, and once
		again the answer was no.  And now
		you say she tried to escape, and the
		answer is still no.  Jean, open your
		eyes -- can't you see the hand of
		God in all this?

					AULON
		No.  I see the hand of Tremoille,
		and Regnault, and Yolande, and
		you... and they are dirty hands.

					REGNAULT
		How can you speak such treachery
		when his majesty has done everything
		to try and save her?

					AULON
		Because I was at this door when you
		planned to betray her... and I was
		at Compiegne when she was betrayed.

Charles, Tremoille and Regnault are speechless.  Tremoille
breaks the silence --

					TREMOILLE
		Guards!  Arrest this traitor!

The Two Guards turn on Aulon, who readily dispatches them
with his sword.  Tremoille hides behind Charles just as
Aulon pins the King with the tip of his sword against his
windpipe.  It would now be an easy matter for Tremoille to
push Charles onto the tip of Aulon's sword.

					AULON
		What do you fear most now... my
		sword?
			   (eyeing Tremoille)
		... or his hands?

					CHARLES
		Tremoille... don't.  Please...

Tremoille hesitates a beat.  Still holding the tip of his
sword at Charles' throat, Aulon motions to Tremoille...

					AULON
		My sword is long enough for both of
		you.

Sweating now, Tremoille eases himself from behind the
King's back.  Charles exhales with relief.

					AULON
		I have always been loyal and true to
		you, but my allegiance is now at an
		end.  From now on, my loyalty
		belongs to Jeanne...

... and Aulon runs from the room, leaving Charles,
Tremoille and Regnault in a state of shock.


EXT.  CHINON CASTLE - DAY

Aulon gallops away from the castle...


EXT.  ROUEN CASTLE - DUSK

The great castle of Rouen, vast and bleak, silhouetted
against the dusk.


INT.  ROUEN CASTLE - CORRIDOR - DUSK

A Guard leads a group of wealthy-looking visitors along a
dank, dark corridor.

					GUARD
		... so don't say I didn't warn you!
		Don't touch her whatever you do --
		don't even stretch out your hand or
		she'll have one of your fingers off
		sooner than spit at you!

					WOMAN #1
		As savage as that, is she?

					GUARD
		Savage?  She's a monster!  At
		Orleans they say she drank her
		victim's blood!

					WOMAN #2
		Oh, it's too horrible!

The woman's escort takes advantage of the situation...

					MALE
		Don't worry, my sweet -- I'll have
		my sword at the ready...

They reach the door, and the Guard fumbles for the right
key.  The Duke of Bedford brings up the rear, escorting
his wife Anne, who is visibly pregnant...

					DUCHESS
		Don't you think this visit is a
		little... inappropriate?

					BEDFORD
		My dear, it's our duty... she's our
		guest!

The Guard unlocks the door, and the Group cautiously
enter.


INT.  JEANNE'S CELL - ROUEN CASTLE - NIGHT

The visitors glance about, but the cell appears empty --
until they look up.  An iron cage is hanging from the
middle of the ceiling.  In the center of the cage is a
body, dressed in rags and curled up like a wounded animal.

					BEDFORD
		Wake her up so we can see her face!

The Guard takes his cudgel and pokes her through the bars.

					GUARD
		Hey, wake up... we got noble guests
		-- don't disappoint them -- turn
		round!

He prods her in the ribs, and she turns to avoid further
pain.  Her face is swollen, her mouth parched, her eyes
full of grief.  The Duchess is stunned...

					GUARD
		Now she's sleepy but you wait and
		see -- any moment now and she'll
		start speaking to her devils, and
		then she'll get to yelping like a
		wolf in heat!  The other night she
		made her cage spin round so fast we
		thought she was going to fly away!

					WOMAN
		Oooo... she gives me creeps...

					GUARD
		Do you want her to stand up so you
		can get a better look?

					DUCHESS
		No.  But get her out of this cage
		and give her a decent bed.

The Guard looks stunned.  The Duchess turns to her
husband.

					DUCHESS
		I'm sorry, but this child is being
		treated like an animal!  Don't you
		think that whatever her crimes may
		be, she deserves a little more of
		our charity?

					BEDFORD
			   (whispering lightly)
		She's not a child, my dear -- she's
		a witch.


INT.  COURTROOM - ROUEN - DAY

Cauchon enters a large, gloomy courtroom and sits down,
surrounded by clerics, assessors, doctors of theology and
other churchmen.

					CAUCHON
		Let the prisoner be brought in.

The door opens and Jeanne is led in, her wrists and ankles
fettered, her face pale and drawn.  She stands in the
center of the room, isolated, alone.  A scribe dips his
quill in the ink and prepares to write on a blank sheet of
parchment.

					CAUCHON
		Our most serene and Christian King
		Henry the Sixth, King of England and
		France, has handed this girl over to
		us, accused of a number of heretical
		deeds, to be tried in a matter of
		faith.

Jeanne is hustled closer to Cauchon, who leans forward,
peering at her intently.

					CAUCHON
		Take the Holy Gospels in your hand
		and swear to tell the whole truth
		concerning everything you will be
		asked.

					JEANNE
		I don't know what you're going to
		ask me questions about.  You may ask
		things that I won't want to answer.

Jeanne's boldness takes everyone somewhat by surprise.

					CAUCHON
		You will swear to tell the truth
		about whatever you are asked.

					JEANNE
		I will willingly swear to tell the
		truth about earthly things, but as
		for my revelations, I've never told
		anyone except my king... Charles the
		Seventh... the one and only king of
		France.

There is murmured dissension among the judges.  We now see
that the Duke of Bedford is also in the room, together
with a small coterie of English observers.  Cauchon is
impatient.

					CAUCHON
		You must take the oath!  Not even a
		king, would refuse to take an oath
		to tell the truth in a matter of
		faith.

					JEANNE
		I will willingly swear to tell you
		what I am allowed to tell you, but
		as to the rest, even if you threaten
		to cut off my head, I still won't
		tell you.

Cauchon looks confused -- and aware that his authority is
slipping.  The judges and theologians are getting
agitated.

					CAUCHON
		So... begin by telling us your name
		-- assuming you're allowed to tell
		us that much?

					JEANNE
		My name is Jeanne.  My little cross
		I had round my neck was taken away
		from me.  I would like to have it
		back.

The Duchess touches the gold cross she has around her
neck.

					CAUCHON
		Show us a little more cooperation
		first.  Where were you born?

					JEANNE
		In a village called Domremy.

					CAUCHON
		How old are you?

					CAUCHON
		Nineteen... or thereabouts...

					CAUCHON
		Were you baptized?

					JEANNE
		Yes.  In the church at Domremy.

					CAUCHON
		Recite the Lord's Prayer.

					JEANNE
		Not unless you hear my confession.

Cauchon is getting impatient.

					CAUCHON
		Jeanne, listen to me very carefully.
		We are all men of faith, and we
		shall earnestly strive for the
		salvation of both your soul and body
		as though it were our own.  We do so
		in the name of our Holy Mother
		Church, who never closes her arms to
		those who would return to her.  But
		we cannot help you unless you submit
		to our learned judgment and
		authority.  Take heed of this
		charitable admonition, for if you
		persist in refusing our help, then
		we shall have no choice but to
		abandon you to the secular powers,
		and I think you know well enough the
		punishment that would await you.  So
		now... will you please recite Our
		Lord's Prayer?

					JEANNE
		Not unless you hear my confession.

The clerks and judges grow agitated, though we sense a few
are already beginning to warm to her, not least the
Duchess.

					CAUCHON
		Jeanne -- be careful -- you're not
		helping yourself by refusing to
		submit to our judgment...

					JEANNE
		And you be careful, you who claim to
		be my judges, for you too will be
		judged one day...!

The court explodes in protest, with cries of "Blasphemy!"
"She's possessed!"  "An infected limb!"  "Sorceress!"
Cauchon hammers on the table to restore order, calling
out --

					CAUCHON
		Guards!  Take the prisoner away!
		Clear the room!

Armed Guards hustle the clerics from the room while Jeanne
is led away, watched by the Duke and Duchess of Bedford...

Bedford turns to his aide (Buck) --

					BEDFORD
		I count on you to have it done.

					BUCK
		Uh... to have what done?

					BEDFORD
		I want her burned.

					BUCK
		As you say, sir.


INT.  ANTECHAMBER - ROUEN CASTLE - DAY

The assessors look extremely uncomfortable, not least
Pierre Cauchon, who does his best to conceal it.

					CAUCHON
		Well... in the future I think we
		should conduct our enquiries in
		private -- away from public pressure
		-- so we can all be more... level-
		headed...

					ASSESSOR #1
		I think the church should wash its
		hands of this whole business.

					ASSESSOR #2
		Let the English burn her if they
		want to... why does it have to
		involve us?

Buck enters the room as an old Priest walks over...

					CAUCHON
		Because it's... it's our clear duty
		to root out heresy wherever it
		occurs.
			   (to the Old Priest)
		Father Vincente... you are the most
		venerable among us, what do you
		think?

					OLD PRIEST
		I think this trial is a masquerade,
		and I won't be part of it anymore.
		I am willing to be her judge, but
		not her executioner.  This young
		girl seems courageous and pious...
		she deserves to be well judged.

The Old Priest walks toward the door...

					CAUCHON
		That's what I'm trying to ensure!

					OLD PRIEST
		The verdict comes at the end of a
		trial, Cauchon, not at the
		beginning.  I am going back to Rome,
		to give me report to our Holy Father
		the Pope.

					CAUCHON
		This is ridiculous!  Now I'm the one
		who's on trial and being judged?!

					OLD PRIEST
		Yes... exactly as Jeanne predicted.

The Old Priest heads for the door, followed by the other
two.  Buck calls out to the Guards...

					BUCK
		Arrest them!

					CAUCHON
		What are you doing?  This is an
		ecclesiastical court -- you have no
		right to do this!

					BUCK
		Rouen is in English territory.  I
		have the right to do anything I
		like.
			   (to guards)
		Take them away.

Ignoring their protestations, the Guards hustle them away,
leaving the others in a state of high anxiety.


INT.  CELL - ROUEN CASTLE - NIGHT

Jeanne is in her cell, facing the wall and frantically
scratching it with her nails.  She is engraving a cross,
and her nails are covered with blood...

She is now kneeling in front of her cross, racing through
The Lord's Prayer as though on the run from the Devil...

					JEANNE
		Our father who is in heaven hallowed
		be thy name thy kingdom come in
		earth as it is in heaven forgive
		them that lead... forgive us that
		lead them... as we forgive them
		that... oh God, don't cut yourself
		off from me like this... I don't
		know what I'm meant to say or not
		say anymore... I don't even know
		what to think... oh, God, I'm so
		lost... don't abandon me like
		everyone else... please, I beg of
		you... at least say you can hear
		me...!  Tell me you hear me...!  Why
		won't you answer me?  Please, I beg
		of you -- ANSWER ME!

Suddenly "the Man" comes out of the wall, kneeling in
front of her and violently hitting his forehead against
hers --

					MAN
		Why were you yelling like that?!

					JEANNE
		What are you doing here?
			   (urgently)
		Please... leave... you can't stay
		here...

					MAN
		Why?  Are you waiting for someone
		else?

					JEANNE
		Yes!

					MAN
		Who?

Jeanne hesitates...

					JEANNE
		My... visions...

					MAN
		They're going to come and visit you
		in here?

					JEANNE
		Yes... that's what I pray for...!

					MAN
		I want to see that.  Do you mind if
		I stay... on the side?  I won't
		bother you.

					JEANNE
		No, no -- you can't stay or they
		won't come!

					MAN
		Why not?

					JEANNE
		Because... I have to be alone!

He smiles regretfully.

					MAN
		They won't come anyway.

					JEANNE
		What do you mean, they won't come?

					MAN
		Why would they?

					JEANNE
		Because!  Because I've always been
		faithful to God, and I've followed
		everything he said... and I've done
		everything he asked me...

					MAN
		God asked you to do something?

					JEANNE
		Yes... lots of things!

					MAN
		You mean God said, "I need you,
		Jeanne?"

					JEANNE
		No, but... he sent me so many signs!

					MAN
		What signs?

					JEANNE
		Like... like the wind... and the
		clouds... and... the bells... and
		what about that sword lying in the
		field... that was a sign...!

					MAN
		No.  That was a sword in a field.

					JEANNE
		But... it didn't just get there by
		itself.

					MAN
		True -- every event has an infinite
		number of causes -- but why pick one
		rather than another?  There are many
		ways a sword might find itself in a
		field...

FLASH:  A group of soldiers on horseback trot across the
field of Jeanne's childhood.  The last soldier's sword is
coming loose, and ends up falling into the long grass...

					MAN
		Seems a perfectly valid
		explanation... but how about this
		one...

FLASH:  Two young children are hurrying with the sword
when an old man calls them from far away --

					OLD MAN
		Hey, you little devils -- come back!

The two children drop the sword in the long grass (in the
same spot as before) and run off...

					MAN
		But then again, there are other
		possibilities...

FLASH:  A man is being chased across the field by a couple
of English soldiers out looting.  His heavy sword is
slowing him down -- he flings it into the long grass...

					MAN
		... or even faster...

FLASH:  The same man running across the field is suddenly
hit by an arrow from nowhere.  He drops the sword in the
long grass, but manages to stagger off into the forest...

					MAN
		... and that's without counting the
		inexplicable...

FLASH:  A man crosses the field.  For no apparent reason
whatsoever, he drops the sword and keeps on walking...

					MAN
		Yet from an infinite number of
		possibilities, you had to pick this
		one...

FLASH:  A peel of thunder -- clouds swirl -- a familiar
wind stirs the long grass -- a fabulous shaft of light
illuminates the patch -- the sword slowly descends from
the heavens and lands gently in the grass.  Mission
accomplished, the shaft of heavenly light disappears.

Jeanne is bewildered...

					MAN
		You didn't see what was, Jeanne.
		You saw what you wanted to see.

... speechless.


INT.  SMALL COURTROOM - ROUEN CASTLE - DAY

We are now in a smaller, more intimate courtroom.  The
Duchess of Bedford is at the back, shielded behind the
theologians and doctors of the church.  Beaupere is
questioning Jeanne:  a cooler man than Cauchon.

					BEAUPERE
		This... "voice" that you say appears
		to you... is it an angel?  Or a
		saint?  Or does it come from God?

Jeanne is still in shock from her encounter with the Man.

					JEANNE
		I won't tell you more about that.
		I'm more afraid of displeasing Him
		than not answering you...

					BEAUPERE
		You're afraid of displeasing God
		when telling the truth?!

					JEANNE
		No...

					BEAUPERE
		Did God forbid you to tell the
		truth?

					JEANNE
		No.  But my revelations were for the
		King of France, not for you.

					D'ESTIVET
		When you saw your king for the first
		time, was there an angel over his
		head?

					JEANNE
		If there was, I didn't see it...

					D'ESTIVET
		Then why did your king believe in
		you without any proof?

					JEANNE
		Go and ask him yourself.

					CAUCHON
		Jeanne, you are not helping
		yourself.  If you don't answer our
		questions properly, your refusal
		will be taken into account.

					JEANNE
		These questions have nothing to do
		with your trial.

					CAUCHON
		I assure you they do.  So... answer
		me... when was the last time you
		heard this voice?

					JEANNE
		Not long ago...

					CAUCHON
		When exactly?  A day, a week --
		when?

					JEANNE
		Last night.

This takes the assessors by surprise.  Cauchon leans
forward.

					CAUCHON
		What were you doing when the voice
		came?

					JEANNE
		Praying.

					CAUCHON
		The voice was in your cell?

					JEANNE
		Yes.

					CAUCHON
		What did it tell you?

					JEANNE
		Many things...

					CAUCHON
		Did it give you advice?
			   (Jeanne hesitates)
		Good advice?

Jeanne hesitates...

					JEANNE
		Go onto the next question.

					BEAUPERE
		Good advice for the French, not for
		the English!  Do you think God hates
		the English?

					JEANNE
		I don't know, but you're all men of
		the church... why not ask Him
		yourself?

Cauchon tries to continue, but another theologian -- JEAN
MIDI -- gets in first.

					JEAN MIDI
		Do you consider yourself to be in a
		state of grace?

Jeanne looks perplexed... a beat...

					JEANNE
		Go on to the next question.

Cauchon seizes his opportunity...

					CAUCHON
		Tell us, Jeanne... do you often hear
		this voice?

					JEANNE
		Yes...

					CAUCHON
		Is it here?  Now?  In this room?

Jeanne slowly looks at the assessors, staring at each in
turn.  They all look acutely uneasy, holding there
breath...

					JEANNE
		No.

Relief from the assessors, but Buck is far from happy.


INT.  ANTECHAMBER - ROUEN CASTLE - DAY

Buck paces in front of Cauchon and a dozen clerics.

					BUCK
		Who's running this trial, you or
		her?  I can't believe it!  This
		wretched girl -- how dare she speak
		to us like that?

					CAUCHON
		She's loyal to her king... it's only
		to be expected that she...

Buck explodes with fury --

					BUCK
		There is only one king of France and
		that's our liege Lord Henry the
		Sixth!  It is written in black and
		white in the Treaty of Troyes --
		that you French bastards signed!

Buck presses a digit against Cauchon's sweaty forehead.

					CAUCHON
		I understand your impatience, but if
		you want this trial to be
		acknowledged as legal we must follow
		correct procedure and...

					BUCK
		To hell with procedure!  We paid a
		bloody fortune for this slut, and we
		can do whatever the hell we like
		with her, whether the church likes
		it or not -- is that clear?

					CAUCHON
		But if this trial seems fixed, I
		fear you'll have the very opposite
		result to the one you want...

					BUCK
		We want her burned as a witch!

					CAUCHON
		But in order to do so, the church
		must first prove her heresy, or else
		you'll be burning a martyr...

					BUCK
		Well then?  Start proving... or else
		the church will have another martyr!

Buck storms out, slamming the door behind him.


INT.  SMALL COURTROOM - ROUEN CASTLE - DAY

Instruments of torture are brought into court by the
Executioner, who lays them out with due ceremony.

					D'ESTIVET
		You told us about the appearance of
		this... voice.  What exactly did you
		see?  Part of it... or all of it?

					JEANNE
		His face.

					D'ESTIVET
		Does he have hair?

					JEANNE
		Yes.

					D'ESTIVET
		Is it long and hanging down?

					JEANNE
		I'm more interested in what he says,
		not what he looks like.

					D'ESTIVET
		But if the devil were to take on the
		physical appearance of a saint or an
		angel... or a man... how would you
		recognize him?  By what he said?

					JEANNE
		Go on to the next question.

					D'ESTIVET
		That's enough!  You will answer the
		question... or face the
		consequences!

A beat... the Executioner readies...

					JEANNE
		If you were to tear me limb from
		limb and make my soul leave my body,
		I would tell you nothing more.  And
		if I did say anything, then
		afterward I would simply say that
		you dragged it out of me by force.
		Now... please... go onto the next
		question.


INT.  SMALL COURTROOM - ROUEN CASTLE - DAY

CUT TO another session...

					JEAN LE MAISTRE
		Who told you to wear men's clothes?

					JEANNE
		The clothes are not important...

					JEAN LE MAISTRE
		You also cut your hair short like a
		man, and in the Bible it clearly
		states that it is an abomination for
		a woman to pretend to be a man!  It
		proves your desire to deceive...

					JEANNE
		It was just... more convenient as I
		was among soldiers...

					JEAN LE MAISTRE
		So you think you did well to cut
		your hair and dress as a man?

					JEANNE
		I... submit to Our Lord.

					JEAN LE MAISTRE
		But will you also submit to the
		decision of the Church?

					JEANNE
		It seems to me that the Church and
		Our Lord are one and the same.  Why
		must you complicate what is so
		simple?

Jean Le Maistre looks at Cauchon for help.

					CAUCHON
		Let me clarify things for you,
		Jeanne.  On the one hand there is
		the Church Triumphant, that is to
		say God, his saints, and the souls
		that are saved.  And then there is
		the Church Militant, that is to say
		our Holy Father the Pope, the
		cardinals, the prelates of the
		Church, the clergy, and all good
		Catholic Christians.  Moreover this
		Church, when assembled, is guided by
		the Holy Spirit and therefore cannot
		be in error.  That is why we ask you
		to submit to the Church Militant...
		that is to say, us.

					JEANNE
		So it is the Church Militant that
		refuses to confess me, and so
		prevents me from being a good
		Christian?

Cauchon bridles his temper.

					CAUCHON
		It is for us to determine whether
		you are a good Christian, not you.

					JEANNE
		I am sent by God, and I submit all
		my words and deeds to His judgment.
		Or do you think that you are better
		judges than He is?


INT.  SMALL COURTROOM - ROUEN CASTLE - DAY

... and another session...

					MAITRE MAURICE
		When you were taken prisoner at
		Compiegne, did you have a horse?

					JEANNE
		Yes... a half-steed... white.

					MAITRE MAURICE
		Who gave you that horse?

					JEANNE
		My king.

					MAITRE MAURICE
		How many did he give you?

					JEANNE
		Five steeds and a few hackneys...

					MAITRE MAURICE
		As much as for a Lord?  What an
		honor!  Did your king give you other
		wealth apart from horses?

					JEANNE
		No.

					MAITRE MAURICE
		What about all those dresses you
		were given... silk dresses weren't
		they?

					JEANNE
		Yes, I was given a few, but I never
		had time to wear them...

					MAITRE MAURICE
		Still, pretty wealthy for a peasant
		girl wouldn't you say?

					JEANNE
		And you look pretty wealthy for a
		servant of God, wouldn't you say?

Maitre Maurice looks uncomfortably about him.  She's
right.

					BEAUPERE
		Is it true that you launched an
		attack on Paris?

					JEANNE
		I tried to.

					BEAUPERE
		It was on a Sunday, wasn't it?

					JEANNE
		I don't remember.  Maybe.

					BEAUPERE
		Do you think is was a good idea to
		launch an attack on a holy day?

					JEANNE
		I don't know...

					BEAUPERE
		And didn't you order the citizens of
		Paris to surrender the city in the
		name of the King of Heaven?

					JEANNE
		No... I said "Surrender in the name
		of the King of France"...

					BEAUPERE
		That is not what is written in the
		evidence... look for yourself!

Beaupere thrusts a document in her face...

					JEANNE
		I can't read.

					BEAUPERE
		Ah, yes, I forgot... God sent us an
		illiterate peasant to carry out such
		an important mission!  Do you think
		that God made the right decision, to
		take an ignorant girl to save the
		kingdom of France?

					JEANNE
		I leave the answer to God.

Beaupere is exasperated.  A sly-looking Theologian speaks
up.

					JEAN MIDI
		Tell us, Jeanne... why did you jump
		from the tower at Beaurevoir?

					JEANNE
		I had been sold to the English.  I'd
		rather die than fall into their
		hands.

					JEAN MIDI
		Did your voice tell you to jump?

					JEANNE
		No...

					JEAN MIDI
		So when you jumped, you wanted to
		kill yourself?

					JEANNE
		No...!

					JEAN MIDI
		How can you deny it when you just
		said "I'd rather die than fall into
		the hands of the English"...?

					JEANNE
		That's now what I meant...

					JEAN MIDI
		Do you not know that suicide is a
		very grievous sin?  No one is
		allowed to destroy the life that God
		created!

					JEANNE
		I know, but that's not the way
		things happened...

					JEAN MIDI
		You mean it was not of your own free
		will that you were on the ledge?

					JEANNE
		Yes, but...

					JEAN MIDI
		And you didn't jump of your free
		will?

					JEANNE
		No!

					JEAN MIDI
			   (making fun of her)
		Oh?  Perhaps someone pushed you
		then?

They laugh.  Jeanne lowers her head.


INT.  SMALL COURTROOM - ROUEN CASTLE - DAY

Yet another weary session...

					BEAUPERE
		Do you have a sword?

					JEANNE
		Quite a few.

					BEAUPERE
		Didn't you also carry a banner?

					JEANNE
		Yes...

					BEAUPERE
		Which did you prefer, your banner or
		your sword?

					JEANNE
		I was forty times more fond of my
		banner than my sword.

					BEAUPERE
		And why was that?  Did it have some
		particular value or power?

					JEANNE
		No, it's just... a sword is a
		weapon.

					BEAUPERE
		And?

					JEANNE
		And so I... I prefer my banner.

					BEAUPERE
		Why?

					JEANNE
		To avoid killing anyone.

					BEAUPERE
		Are you saying that if you had not
		been carrying your banner you'd have
		killed more people?

Jeanne is losing her confidence...

					JEANNE
		No, of course not... I never killed
		anyone...

					BEAUPERE
		Then perhaps the temptation to kill
		would have been stronger... too
		strong perhaps...?

					JEANNE
		No!  I warned the English to go back
		home -- I begged them not to force
		us to fight -- they knew the defeat
		I would bring on them... why didn't
		they listen to me?

					BEAUPERE
		We have numerous witnesses who can
		confirm that you were not always
		carrying your banner...

					JEANNE
		Yes, probably... maybe...

					BEAUPERE
		So sometimes you were carrying just
		your sword?

					JEANNE
		Yes, but...

					BEAUPERE
		Did you use the sword that you held
		in your hand?

					JEANNE
		No, I... I held it up to...

					BEAUPERE
		You held up your sword and
		flourished it about in the air?
		Like this?

					JEANNE
		Yes, maybe... I don't remember...

					BEAUPERE
		... so you were in the middle of the
		battlefield, with your sword in your
		hand, waving it above your head...
		charging against the enemy,
		screaming and yelling... fighting
		for your life... and you want us to
		believe that in the middle of all
		this excitement you never killed
		anyone?

					JEANNE
		No, I... I never killed anyone!

					MAN (O.S.)
		I can't believe you can lie like
		that!


INT.  JEANNE'S CELL - ROUEN CASTLE - NIGHT

Jeanne's fetter is once again attached to her chain, and
she's walking in circles, trying to escape "the Man"...

					JEANNE
		I'm not lying, I... I can't
		remember... leave me alone!

					MAN
		Oh?  You can't remember?  Let me
		help your memory...

FLASH:  an Englishman is skewed during the battle of
Orleans...

					JEANNE
		No!  I don't want to know anymore!
		Leave me alone!  I didn't kill that
		man!

					MAN
		Oh no?  How about this one?

FLASH:  another English soldier is killed...

					MAN
		Or this one?

FLASH:  ... and another...

					JEANNE
		Stop, stop... I can't remember!  The
		battles were all so confusing...
		there was so much smoke, dust,
		noise... I was being attacked on all
		sides, so... maybe... perhaps I
		fought back but it was only to
		defend myself...

					MAN
		So your memory's coming back?

					JEANNE
		Yes... yes!  And now you tell me
		why God let all these battles happen
		in the first place... if he's so
		powerful... he said he's "the
		creator of heaven and earth, the
		source of all life..." he could have
		easily stopped all this blood and
		misery?  Why didn't he?

					MAN
		Is he the one who spread all this
		blood and misery?

					JEANNE
		No, but... why didn't he stop it?
		Or did he get pleasure, watching us
		killing each other in his name?

					MAN
		In His name??

					JEANNE
		Yes!  We fought and killed in His
		name... the King of Heaven!

					MAN
		Really?

FLASH:  Jeanne is seated in her saddle before Orleans,
raising her standard with the cry --

					JEANNE
		Let all who love me follow me!

Back in Jeanne's cell:

					MAN
		"Let all who love me follow me"...
		Where does God get mentioned?
			   (Jeanne is cornered)
		Come on Jeanne, be honest.  You
		fought for yourself, in your name.

					JEANNE
		I... I was defending myself as best
		I could!  Everyone has the right to
		defend themselves, don't they?  Or
		should I have let myself be killed?

					MAN
		No, no, you did fine.  I'd even say
		well done.  Besides, most of the
		ones you killed probably deserved
		it, don't you think?

					JEANNE
		No, I do not think so.  I don't
		think that killing each other will
		ever bring peace.

					MAN
		I agree...

FLASHBACK:  Jeanne telling Charles --

					JEANNE
		Peace will only be got from the
		English at the end of a lance!

The Man looks at Jeanne, who is becoming unnerved...

					MAN
		I don't agree.  Why do you have to
		keep changing your mind all the
		time?

					JEANNE
		Why are you doing this to me??  Do
		you get pleasure from hurting me?

					MAN
		Ah, pleasure... that's a difficult
		word to define.  When does the pain
		end and the pleasure begin...?
		When did your pleasure begin with
		that sword in your hand...?

					JEANNE
		I never took pleasure in hurting
		anyone?

					MAN
		Really?

FLASH:  In EXTREME SLOW MOTION, Jeanne's face contorts --
a look of madness as she sweeps a sword across the
SCREEN...

					JEANNE
		Nnnnooooooooo!

Jeanne covers her face with her hands, sobbing in despair.

					JEANNE
		Help me... please... set me free!

The Man seems genuinely compassionate...

					MAN
		You will be, Jeanne.  You will be.


INT.  HALLWAY - ROUEN CASTLE - DAY

A hooded Priest moves along the hallway, stopping in front
of the Guard.  He shows him his "pass" -- a heavy seal.
The Priest is Aulon in disguise.  The Guard looks at the
seal...

					AULON
		I'm replacing Father Demaury.  He's
		become very sick...

					GUARD
		It's amazing how many people have
		become suddenly very sick since the
		beginning of this trial... it must
		be this witch casting spells on
		them.  Burn her!

No doubt Aulon would like to stab the Guard right there,
but thinks better of it...

					AULON
		I'll do my best.

Aulon enters the court room...


INT.  COURTROOM - ROUEN CASTLE - DAY

-- and sits on a bench, doing his best to look
inconspicuous.  He guardedly glances at Jeanne who seems
to be asleep on her feet.  Beaupere is whispering to
Cauchon, document in hand.  Beaupere beckons to the
Guard...

					BEAUPERE
		Wake her up.

The Guard pokes Jeanne in the ribs.  She seems almost used
to this kind of treatment, but is weaker.  Aulon seethes
with impotent rage, hidden behind his hood.

					JEAN MIDI
		So... let us summarize your
		situation.  You refuse to submit to
		the authority of the church militant
		by taking an oath; you made an
		assault on Paris on a Sunday; you
		hurled yourself down from the tower
		at Beaurevoir, and you persist in
		wearing male dress... I ask you
		again:  do you believe that you are
		in a state of grace?

Jeanne takes a deep breath...

					JEANNE
		If I am not, may God bring me there.
		If I am, may He keep me there.

The admiration of the assessors is almost tangible.


INT.  ANTECHAMBER - ROUEN CASTLE - DAY

Buck sweeps everything off the table in a fit of anger.
Alone with him, Cauchon looks troubled.

					CAUCHON
		Calm down, my lord, I beg you!

					BUCK
		How can I calm down when I'm made
		the laughing-stock of the whole
		court?!  I've had enough!

					CAUCHON
		Be patient, my lord... you've seen
		how it is.  This girl has a way with
		people... but everyday we're making
		progress...

					BUCK
		So long as this bitch remains alive,
		our armies refuse to fight!  Don't
		you understand?  They want proof
		that God is on their side... and the
		only way they're going to believe
		that is when they see her being
		burnt as a witch!

Buck takes a mug and pours himself some wine, but the
carafe is empty...

					CAUCHON
		It is not for us to burn her, my
		lord.  That is your prerogative.

					BUCK
		... and your prerogative is to find
		her guilty...

					CAUCHON
		But we can't do that unless she
		admits to blasphemy...

					BUCK
		Well what are you waiting for?
		You've got a castle full of racks
		and ropes and pulleys:  go and
		torture the bitch!

Cauchon takes out his own personal hip-flask, his hand
visibly trembling as he pours Buck some liquor.

					CAUCHON
		You won't be able to drag anything
		from her that way.  You also must
		realize that many of my colleagues
		are... well, scared...

					BUCK
		Scared of a girl?

					CAUCHON
		Scared to make a mistake.  Supposing
		she's right... supposing she really
		has been sent by God??

Buck narrows his eyes.

					BUCK
		Whose side are you on, Cauchon?

					CAUCHON
		I'm on the side of our Mother Holy
		Church.  Besides, a confession under
		torture will never convince anyone
		of her guilt.

					BUCK
		Well find some other way!  Be
		creative.  Tell them she fucks the
		devil... Hmm, not a bad idea... why
		can't you say that?  Sounds good to
		me... and who can prove she doesn't?

Buck drains the liquor.

					CAUCHON
		One small problem, my lord.  The
		girl is a virgin.

Buck has a horrible glint in his eye.

					BUCK
		That is a very small problem.


INT./ EXT.  JEANNE'S CELL/COURTYARD - ROUEN - DAY

Jeanne is smoothing food into the cross she scratched into
the wall.  She does it with great care, as though
painting.  The Man appears in the background, watching
her.

					MAN
		What are you doing?

Jeanne is delighted and relieved to see him...

					JEANNE
		I -- I cleaned up my room, look...
		and I said my prayers... all of
		them... and...

					MAN
		What are you doing on the wall?

					JEANNE
		I'm trying to make my cross look
		more beautiful...

					MAN
		What for?

					JEANNE
		Because... because I don't know what
		else to do to please him.

					MAN
		Do you think this cross will protect
		you?

					JEANNE
		No, I...

Jeanne looks helpless.  The Man smiles, turns and looks
out of the window...

					MAN
		Look at them... with their beautiful
		cross...

Far below in the courtyard, a Priest is blessing a dozen
soldiers and their wooden cross.

					MAN
		... The sight of priests blessing
		entire armies before they go off to
		kill each other never ceases to
		amaze me.  And that these massacres
		should be recorded as acts of faith
		in God's name...
			   (no reaction from
			    Jeanne)
		And they think that making a
		beautiful cross or building a
		cathedral will wash away their
		sins... ridiculous!  Just like that
		priest who accused you of fighting
		on a Sunday.  Did God give
		permission to kill each other for
		the rest of the week?

In the courtyard, the soldiers mount their horses...

					JEANNE
		"Love your enemies"...

					MAN
			   (a satisfied smile)
		Good.  But "love your enemies"...
		body and soul.

Jeanne nods, knowing the truth but still not prepared to
admit it.

					JEANNE
		My voices... my voices... do you
		think they will ever come back?

					MAN
		I don't think so.

					JEANNE
		Are you going to leave me too?

					MAN
		Yes... of course... when you don't
		need me anymore.

					JEANNE
		Are you sent by God?

FLASH:  to Jeanne at Orleans...

					WOMAN
		But you've been sent by God!

					JEANNE
		So has everyone...

Back to the Man:

					MAN
		So has everyone...

Jeanne looks at him -- then at her cross -- then back at
the soldiers in the courtyard below.  With a lusty cry,
they set off at a gallop, blessed and ready for battle...

					JEANNE
		There's nothing for me to do here
		anymore... I don't belong here I
		want to be with Him now...

					MAN
		Do you think you are ready?

Jeanne stands up... comes and kneels before him, kissing
his hands.

					JEANNE
		Yes I am.

					MAN
		Are you willing to follow all His
		commandments?

					JEANNE
		Yes...

					MAN
		... to love your enemy as much as
		you love yourself?

Jeanne hesitates a moment -- a short amount of time, but
enough for a lie to slip in...

					JEANNE
		Yes.  I'm ready now.

The Man smiles.

					MAN
		Let's see.

She hears approaching footsteps... the SOUND of keys
jangling... a lock turns --

-- and the three SOLDIERS walk into the room.  The first
one has a familiar black beard.

					BLACKBEARD
		Now that's what I call booty!

He is none other than her sister's rapist and murderer.
Jeanne reacts in terror...

					JEANNE
		Oh no...

					BLACKBEARD
			   (undoing his belt)
		We thought you must be pretty bored
		in here, so we've come to liven you
		up a bit... right, lads?

					JEANNE
		Please -- don't do it -- don't hurt
		me --

					BLACKBEARD
		Of course not, sweetheart... if you
		promise to do as I say...

Blackbeard caresses her cheek and tries to force her legs
apart, but she resists -- whispers imploringly...

					JEANNE
		Where are you?  Don't leave me...
		please...

					BLACKBEARD
		Hey, come on... open up...!

His two comrades egg him on.  Jeanne struggles even
harder, and Blackbeard suddenly becomes violent.  He grabs
her by the throat, thrusts her against the bed and tears
off her clothes.  Jeanne suddenly goes berserk, yelling
and thrashing like a cornered animal.

					BLACKBEARD
		Stop screaming like that!  You'll
		wake up the whole bleedin' castle!

Blackbeard clamps his hand over her mouth, whereupon
Jeanne summons hidden reserves of strength, and in a
sudden surge manages to clamp her chains around
Blackbeard's neck... she presses down on the chains,
choking him, strangling him...!

The two other soldiers come to Blackbeard's rescue and
manage to haul her off.  Blackbeard gropes his throat,
then belts her across the face...

					BLACKBEARD
		Ah, so you want to play it rough?
		Good... I like it better that way!

He pulls out a knife and starts to tear at her clothes
while the two others hold her down.  Jeanne struggles for
her life -- yelling, spitting, biting, scratching --

Blackbeard is too excited to pay any attention.  Nor does
he notice the door open and the Duchess enter with the
Guard.

					DUCHESS
		Stop that at once!  That's an order!

But to Blackbeard, it could be Jeanne speaking.  The
Duchess, in her nightgown, grabs Blackbeard by the
shoulders...

					DUCHESS
		I command you to stop, in the name
		of the King!

The mention of the King jolts Blackbeard to attention...

					DUCHESS
		Leave her alone, do you hear?  Come
		on, get out!

The three soldiers back sheepishly away...

					BLACKBEARD
		We were just having a little fun,
		that's all, keeping her company.

					DUCHESS
		Men like you are the cause of our
		country's dishonor!

					BLACKBEARD
		We were serving our country... just
		obeying orders, ma'am...

The Duchess doesn't want to hear more...

					DUCHESS
		Go on, get out of here!

The Guards hustle the three soldiers from the room, but
not before Blackbeard has mumbled --

					BLACKBEARD
		See you later, angel.

The soldiers leave and the Guard bolts the door behind
them.  Jeanne curls up on her bed, destroyed, humiliated,
lost.  The Duchess caresses her face and doesn't know what
to do to comfort her.  The Guard brings a blanket --
probably his.

					JEANNE
		Thank you...

She wraps the blanket round Jeanne, and presses the little
cross back in her hand.

					DUCHESS
		This won't happen again, I give you
		my word.


INT.  ROOM - ROUEN CASTLE - DAY

The Duchess storms into a room where Cauchon is talking
with Bedford and Buck.  She walks up to him...

					BEDFORD
		And... What a pleasant surprise...

... and slaps him across the face as he has never been
slapped before.

					DUCHESS
		You should know that each
		humiliation you inflict on this
		woman, you inflict on all women,
		including yours my lord.

					BEDFORD
		Wha... what on earth are you talking
		about?

					DUCHESS
		If you send anymore of your soldiers
		to Jeanne's cell... I will kill them
		myself.

The Duchess turns and sweeps past Cauchon, leaving Bedford
staring at Buck who looks decidedly embarrassed.  Bedford
turns to Cauchon...

					BEDFORD
		I'm giving you one more day.

Then he turns and leaves.


EXT.  CEMETERY OF ST. OUEN - DAY

A masked Executioner stands beside a stake, piled high
with faggots.  Jeanne, her hands bound, stands nearby,
facing a podium filled with the usual assembly of priests
and prelates, headed by Cauchon.  He rises to address
Jeanne.

					CAUCHON
		Jeanne, my very dear friend in
		Christ, we, your judges and
		assessors, desirous of reaching a
		true and lawful verdict, submitted a
		transcript of your trial to the
		University of Paris in order to
		obtain their opinion.  After careful
		consideration, the learned scholars
		have concluded with us that you have
		committed many grievous sins, and I
		ask you to listen most carefully to
		their opinion as contained in these
		articles.

Cauchon hands a manuscript to one of the assessors, Canon
Pierre Maurice, then resumes his seat.  Among the monks we
spot Aulon, who slowly tries to make his way toward
Jeanne.

					MAURICE
		Article One.  You have said that
		from an early age you have had
		revelations from the blessed saints
		and angels, that you have seen them
		with your own eyes, and that they
		speak to you.  As to this article,
		the learned scholars have declared
		that these claims are untrue,
		pernicious and evil, and that all
		such revelations are superstitious,
		and proceed from the devil.

The Duke of Bedford and his English peers are in a
separate stand, guarded by English soldiers.  The cemetery
walls and the branches of trees beyond are crowded with
spectators...

The English are impatient to carry out sentence, but
Maurice is not a man to be intimidated.  Jeanne seems
hardly aware of what is being said...

					MAURICE
		Article Two.  You said that by God's
		command you have continually worn
		men's clothes, and that you have
		also worn your hair short, without
		nothing...

From Jeanne's POV, Maurice's drone FADES, and the crowd
seems to disappear.  She whispers in agony...

					JEANNE
		My lord... don't abandon me... where
		are you?  Is this what you want?
		You want me to burn?  To burn
		without being confessed...?  I'll do
		anything you want... but don't leave
		me...

Jeanne is completely alone in the middle of the cemetery.
Only the graves, the stakes, and the moaning wind...

					JEANNE
		Don't leave me here... please...
		don't leave me alone!

Suddenly the crowd is back, with Maurice droning on.

					MAURICE
		Finally, Article Twelve.  You have
		said that you are not willing to
		submit yourself to the judgment of
		the Church Militant, but only to
		God.  As to this Article, the
		scholars say that you have no
		comprehension of the authority of
		the Church, that you have
		perniciously erred in the faith of
		God, and that you are a child of
		superstition, a wanderer from the
		Faith, an invoker of demons, a
		sorceress, an idolater and a
		heretic!

Maurice resumes his seat while Chatillon approaches
Jeanne.

					CHATILLON
		Jeanne, we once again admonish, beg
		and exhort you to cast out and
		recant your erroneous beliefs, and
		return into the way of truth by
		submitting yourself to the authority
		of our Mother Holy Church by signing
		this recantation.

Jeanne looks at the parchment in confusion...

					JEANNE
		If the church wants me to say that
		my visions are evil, then I don't
		believe in this church and I submit
		myself to the judgment of God!

Chatillon throws up his hands in despair.  Bedford is
brimming with anticipation.  He calls out to the
Executioner:

					BEDFORD
		Perform your office!

The Executioner turns to Jeanne, but before he can take
hold of her, Cauchon strides over --

					CAUCHON
		Wait!   

Cauchon grabs the document from Chatillon and holds it up
to Jeanne...

					CAUCHON
		Jeanne, I beg of you... sign!
			   (Jeanne looks dazed)
		In God's name, don't you understand?
		I'm trying to save you!  If you
		don't sign, the English will burn
		you to death!  Is that what you
		want??

					JEANNE
		No... I want to be confessed.

Cauchon hands her a quill.  The English are getting
agitated, heckling Cauchon to hand her over, but the
spectators in the trees and on the wall are urging her
escape the pyre by signing.  Jeanne begins to waver...

					CAUCHON
		Sign this, and I will confess you
		myself if you want.

					JEANNE
		And may I go to Mass?

					CAUCHON
		As often as you like -- now, please
		-- for the love of God -- sign!!

Again Jeanne looks about for the Man... but sees only the
Executioner, waiting to conduct her to the stake.

					CAUCHON
		Sign, and you'll be free from your
		chains... free from the fire,
		Jeanne... now... sign!

The Crowd begins to chant... Sign, sign, sign!  Aulon, who
has managed to get closer, joins them...

					AULON
		Sign, Jeanne -- sign!

Bedford is in a panic as Jeanne takes the quill and makes
her mark -- a wavering cross at the bottom of the
parchment.  The Crowd cheers, Aulon is ecstatic... but
their voices go silent as the Man once again appears from
behind Cauchon.

					MAN
		You know what you just signed,
		Jeanne?  You just signed away my
		existence... For you I'm a lie, an
		illusion.
			   (Jeanne is horrified)
		You see?  In the end, you were the
		one who abandoned me...

					JEANNE
		No...

... the Man a smile of faint regret and disappears.
Jeanne turns to Cauchon...

					JEANNE
		Please... may I have it back...

					CAUCHON
		You have nothing to regret...

She tries to grab it from Cauchon, but soldiers pinion
her.

					JEANNE
		I didn't mean it!  I didn't know
		what I was signing!  You tricked
		me...!

					CAUCHON
		Silence her!
			   (soldier clamps hand
			    over her mouth)
		Take her away...!

The Soldiers hustle her away as Cauchon walks back to the
podium.  Aulon is relieved, and yet strangely
apprehensive.  Cauchon hands the Duke the document signed
by Jeanne.

					CAUCHON
		There... she has recanted, and we
		accept her repentance, for the
		church never closes her arms to
		those who return to the fold.  She's
		yours to do whatever you want with
		her, but the church has nothing to
		do with it anymore.  She's your
		prisoner -- your martyr -- not ours.

Bedford can't answer as the Duchess is next to him.


INT.  DUNGEON - ROUEN CASTLE - NIGHT

Jeanne is flung into a filthy dungeon.  Buck appears in
the doorway and flings male clothes in her face.

					BUCK
		Here... in case you want to get
		dressed -- try these for size!

					JEANNE
		He promised I'd be confessed... and
		go to Mass... and be free from these
		chains...!

					BUCK
		We never promised you anything!  But
		this much I can promise you... that
		you won't be leaving this dungeon
		till the day you die!

The Guards laugh, slamming and bolting the door behind
her.  Jeanne sinks to her knees in grief and anguish...


EXT.  ROUEN CASTLE - DAWN

Dawn is breaking beyond the distant castle...


INT.  CHURCH - DAY

Cauchon is alone, lost in his thoughts.  A young monk runs
in, out of breath...

					MONK
		My lord Bishop... come quickly...!


EXT.  COURTYARD - ROUEN CASTLE - DAY

Cauchon and the Monk hurry across the castle courtyard.
Aulon sees them pass, anxious at their apparent concern...


INT.  DUNGEON - ROUEN CASTLE - DAY

Cauchon arrives in Jeanne's dungeon, out of breath.  It is
full of people:  Bedford, his Aide, priests and soldiers.

					BEDFORD
		Ah, Cauchon... come to see for
		yourself?  Well, take a look.

Beyond them stands Jeanne, her back to us, dressed as a
man.

					BEDFORD
		You see?  Dressed as a man again!
		Her touching repentance didn't last
		very long, did it.  The Bishop of
		Senlis was passing by and was on
		hand to witness her very evident
		relapse.

					CAUCHON
		And by what miracle did these
		clothes find their way in here?

					BEDFORD
		Not a miracle, my dear Cauchon... an
		evil spell!  This girl is a witch,
		and tomorrow she will burn for it!
			   (to Buck)
		Have the stake prepared in the
		market place...!

Jeanne doesn't say a word.  She stands with her back to
us, gazing up at the dim crack of light bleeding in
through the high window-slit.  Bedford exits with the
others, leaving Cauchon alone with Jeanne.

					CAUCHON
		I don't understand, Jeanne... why
		did you do it?  Why?

					JEANNE
		And you?  Why did you lie?  You
		promised I could be confessed...

					CAUCHON
		I know, Jeanne... it was the only
		way to save you from the fire!

					JEANNE
		It's not my body I want to save.
		It's my soul.

Jeanne turns round, and we see that she is strangely calm,
as though a great weight had been lifted from her.  She
kneels before Cauchon...

					JEANNE
		I ask only one thing... to hear me
		in confession...

					CAUCHON
		I -- I can't Jeanne... I can't hear
		your confession... I'm sorry...

He hurries out of the cell.  A Guard locks the door behind
him, and Jeanne is alone.  But not for long.  The Man
materializes and sits next to her...

					MAN
		Do you really want to confess,
		Jeanne?
			   (Jeanne nods)
		I'm listening.

He turns his back, as the Priest did in the confessional.

					JEANNE
		I have committed sins, my Lord -- so
		many sins.  As a child, the only way
		I could help my people was to pray.
		So I prayed to God and his saints.
		I prayed more and more, and gave God
		all my love... but isn't it said
		that God helps them who help
		themselves?  So I helped myself...
		and I saw signs... the ones I wanted
		to see -- and I fought, out of
		revenge and despair.  Yes, I was
		proud -- stubborn -- selfish -- and
		cruel... I was all the things that
		humans believe they are allowed to
		be when they're fighting for a
		cause.

The Man smiles a little, satisfied sigh.

					MAN
		You think you are ready now?

					JEANNE
		Yes, my lord.

					MAN
		Let's see.

As he disappears, she hears a noise... turns round and
sees a Guard in the doorway...

A beat, then the Guard topples forward to the floor, blood
oozing from his mouth.  Behind him stands a Priest.  He
pulls a sword from the Guard's body, then throws back his
hood.  It is Aulon.  He runs to Jeanne and takes her in
his arms...   

					AULON
		Jeanne... thank God!

He quickly sets about removing her chains from her
ankle...

					AULON
		We must hurry -- I took care of the
		guard, but others are coming...!

Jeanne gently caresses his hand...

					JEANNE
		I am ready now...

					AULON
		Just give me a moment and then
		you'll be free...

					JEANNE
		I'm already free...

					AULON
			   (preoccupied)
		Yes yes... any moment... you're
		always so impatient...

Jeanne puts her hand on his to stop him wasting his time.

					JEANNE
		My gentle Captain... I'm staying.

					AULON
		I -- I don't understand...

					JEANNE
		One day you will.

					AULON
		You don't know what you're saying.
		You're going to leave this place,
		Jeanne -- you're going home -- or
		whatever you want -- you're going to
		be happy, and have children, and...

She caresses his face with both hands, smiling at him
gently.  Aulon continues to talk, but his eyes are
beginning to brim with tears... he knows it's useless,
that Jeanne has made her decision...

					AULON
		... and maybe the king will give you
		some money, and a little land, and a
		title even...
			   (smiling through his
			    tears)
		... wouldn't that be a fine thing?
		You, a lady of title!

					JEANNE
		I'm staying, Jean.

					AULON
		No, you must come, Jeanne -- we need
		you -- so much has happened since
		you left... I have a new horse now,
		a white one, just like yours... and
		La Hire hardly swears at all
		anymore...
			   (crying)
		You can't stay -- they'll burn you!

					JEANNE
		I'm not afraid of the fire anymore.
		It will purify me...

					AULON
		Jeanne, you can't leave us like
		this!

Jeanne smiles at him...

					JEANNE
		I am at peace now, my gentle
		friend... at peace with myself.

She speaks gently, but with resolution:  there is no going
back, and Aulon knows it.  He hears the distant SOUND of
soldiers approaching...

Aulon takes Jeanne's face in his hands and kisses her on
the lips.  A full kiss, the only one and the last one, one
which Jeanne neither encourages nor resists.

					JEANNE
		You must go.

She says it gently but urgently.  With tears welling,
Aulon tears himself from her sight and disappears.  Jeanne
is left alone, strangely calm and serene.  Slowly she
raises her finger-tips to her lips... touches them
softly...

The Man emerges from the darkness, carrying an ornate
Cross on a long pole, bearing an effigy of the crucified
Christ.

					MAN
		Ego te absolvo, in nomine Patris, et
		Filii, et Spiritus Sancti, Amen...

He stands in front of her, raising the Cross above...


EXT.  ROUEN MARKET PLACE - DAY

... Jeanne, who looks up to see the crucifix rising
against a clear blue sky, now held aloft by a Priest.  She
is bound to the stake, her head shaved.  At the base of
the pyre, the EXECUTIONER sprinkles the faggots with
oil...

					EXECUTIONER
		Don't worry, it's going to be
		fast... I used plenty of dry wood so
		there'll be lots of smoke... but
		don't forget to breath fast and
		you'll be dizzy before the flames
		even get to you...

A great CROWD has assembled in the market place.  On a
podium is the Duke of Bedford, trying to remain impassive.
Beside him, the Duchess can barely contain her emotions.
Further along stands Cauchon, his eyes lowered, not
wanting to see.

Still disguised as a monk, Aulon stands close to the pyre,
tormented and torn between revenge and despair...

Bedford makes a sign to the Executioner, who then takes a
torch and sets fire to the brushwood.  Flames erupt, and
Jeanne's breathing quickens.  As thick smoke rises, the
Priest begins to cough; his eyes water, and he can no
longer hold up the cross to Jeanne's sight.  She begins to
panic, her eyes wildly searching...

					JEANNE
		... the... cross... show me the
		cross... please...

The Priest struggles to hold it up, but the choking smoke
drives him back.

					JEANNE
		Where... where are you...?

Jeanne is filled with panic... the Priest is bent double
with coughing and can get no closer...

					JEANNE
		... please... the cross!

Suddenly Aulon rushes forward, grabs the cross from the
Priest and boldly defies the smoke and flames, risking his
life as he holds it high for Jeanne...

Finally the cross is visible to her, rising above the
flames into a clear blue sky.  Her anxiety melts, her eyes
fill with tears of hope as she gazes up at the cross...

As her eyes close, the image of the cross becomes engulfed
with flames... until the smoke finally fills the SCREEN,
plunging it into darkness...

								    CUT TO BLACK.

					THE END





