
MISSION
IMPOSSIBLE II
TRANSCRIPT

Written By Kelvin Lam. Completed 06/30/00
Original screenplay by Robert Towne. Revised 07/11/00

NOTES:
This transcript is not trying to get the movie word for word, but 
close to it. This transcript is for reading purposes only!
KEY:
(OC)= Off Computer
(VO)= Voice Over
(OS)= Off Screen
**This transcript must not be copied**

FADE IN:

EXT. SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA - DAY

The movie starts with some aerial shots of Sydney monuments like 
the Opera house and so on. We then get a shot of a top of a 
building and we get a CAPTION at the bottom of the screen.

CAPTION
BIOCYTE PHARMACEUTICALS

INT. LAB - BIOCYTE - DAY

We see NEKHOROVICH wearing two gloves in a clear box which is 
inside a confinement room. In the box are three space-looking 
guns. 

NEKHOROVICH(VO)
Well, Dimitri. Every search for a hero must begin with something 
that every hero requires, a villain. Therefore, in our search for 
a hero, Belairiform, we created the monster, Chimera. 

NEKHOROVICH picks up one gun and points it to his wrist and pulls 
the trigger.

INT. LOBBY - BIOCYTE - DAY

NEKHOROVICH exits the lobby with a briefcase and checks his timer 
which is counting down for some reason. He continues to walk.

NEKHOROVICH(VO)
I beg you, Dimitri, come to Sydney and accompany me to Atlanta 
immediately. However we travel, I must arrive at my destination 
within twenty hours of departure.

EXT. FRONT ENTRANCE - BIOCYTE - DAY

NEKHOROVICH exits the building and stops to see children playing 
and singing.

CHILDREN
...We a pocket full of posies. A tissue, a tissue, we all fall 
down.

The children all fall to the ground and laugh. The picture morphs 
back to NICOVICH's face. He continues to walk.

INT. PLANE - THE ROCKYS - DAY

NEKHOROVICH looks out of his window on the plane, he sits back to 
reveal ETHAN HUNT sitting next to him. The CAPTAIN speaks on the 
PA system.

CAPTAIN(OS)
We are two and a half hours away from Atlanta, out you window 
now, we have a great view of the Rocky Mountains.

NEKHOROVICH looks at his watch.

HUNT
You keep staring at that watch as if your life depended on it, 
Doctor.

NEKHOROVICH
Yes, I suppose I'm a bit anxious.

HUNT
You'll soon be with old friends.

NEKHOROVICH
I'm with an old friend now, Dimitri.

HUNT
I'm sorry I couldn't be on your happier circumstances.

NEKHOROVICH
I'm sorry too. You are sorry and I'm sorry. 
Did you know Gradski thought about a few?

HUNT
Did he know before the end that you two had succeeded?

NEKHOROVICH
Yes, he knew. Just...

HUNT
... Not in time to see it.

NEKHOROVICH
No! After you have been infected with 
Chimera, for twenty hours, nothing can save you. Not even 
Belairiform. 

HUNT
You can carry them together. Safely?

NEKHOROVICH
Yes. And you get us to safe place with them in Atlanta, thank 
God.

NEKHOROVICH pats the briefcase. The plane seems to be failing. 
The captain comes back on the PA.

CAPTAIN
This is your captain again. We've experienced a slight, but 
abrupt drop in cabin pressure. As a precaution, I have released 
the oxygen masks. Please put them on, sit back and relax, there 
is nothing to worry about.

The CAPTAIN releases the masks and the passengers begin to worry. 
We see WALLIS close a laptop and walk to the back of the plane 
while the other passengers put on the masks.

NEKHOROVICH
Are you concerned?

HUNT
Well, not so far. Just put on your oxygen mask, I'll see what's 
going on.

NEKHOROVICH
Okay.

HUNT leaves his seat and walks to the back also. NEKHOROVICH puts 
on his seatbelt.
INT. COCKPIT - PLANE - DAY

The CAPTAIN is on the radio and is sending a transmission for 
help.

CAPTAIN
Denver centre, this is Trans Pac two two zero seven, seven four 
seven heavy. We are unable to maintain cabin pressurisation, 
initated a descent to one six thousand.

As the CAPTAIN sends the transmission, his co-pilot has slowly 
passed out. The CAPTAIN decreases the flight level one zero 
thousand and engages the auto-pilot and leaves the cockpit.

INT. PASSENGER CABIN - PLANE - DAY

The other passengers on the plane also pass out with their oxygen 
masks on. NEKHOROVICH looks worried.

NEKHOROVICH
God!

The CAPTAIN, who is really HUGH STAMP, leaves the cockpit and 
takes his tie off. He puts on a parachute and a thermal suit with 
the other man, WALLIS, who went to the back earlier. HUNT goes 
back to his seat next to NEKHOROVICH. He sits down.

NEKHOROVICH
It seems that we have a problem, Dimitri!

HUNT
You keep calling me Dimitri. You really shouldn't.

NEKHOROVICH
Your not Dimitri?

HUNT whacks NEKHOROVICH in the chest and then into the front 
seat. HUNT takes NEKHOROVICH's briefcase. 

HUNT
No!

WALLIS and STAMP come to him. HUNT stands up.

HUNT
Wallis, hold onto this.

Hands over the briefcase to WALLIS. ETHAN HUNT suddenly rips off 
his face to reveal that it is not HUNT but SEAN AMBROSE, another 
IMF agent. He begins to talk.

AMBROSE(HUNT's voice)
Alright, remember to pull the...

AMBROSE suddenly stops and rips off a voice changing device from 
his neck.

AMBROSE
Remember to pull the O2 tanks, Gunter.

STAMP
All done Chief.

They open up a trap door on the bottom of the cabin aisle. They 
put on goggles and one at a time, jump out of the plane.

INT. COCKPIT - PLANE - DAY

A WARNING VOICE continues to sound from the cockpit switchboard. 
The co-pilot wakes up from passing out to find that the plane is 
heading towards a mountain.

WARNING VOICE
Terrain! Terrain! Pull up! Pull up! (repeats)

The co-pilot pulls up but it is not enough to miss the mountain 
and the plane crashes and explodes.

EXT. CLIFFS - SEMI-DESERT AERA - DAY

We see the actual ETHAN HUNT climbing a cliff face with no rigs 
or other forms of protection. He continues climbing and gets to a 
point when he changes places on the cliff face. HUNT jumps to the 
other spot and makes it. He suddenly slips and is holding onto 
the cliff face with one hand. He quickly regains his grip and 
continues to climb. Finally he makes it to the top of the cliff.

Suddenly, helicopter flies by. A guy in a suit, sitting on the 
edge of the chopper points to him and fires a small missile. The 
small missile gets stuck in the ground. HUNT makes a smirk. The 
chopper leaves. HUNT walks to the small missile and opens it to 
see OAKLEY-style sunglasses. He makes a smirk and puts the 
glasses on. The sunglasses begin a retinal scan. SWANBECK's voice 
comes from the glasses.

SWANBECK
Morning Mr. Hunt. Your mission, should you chose to accept it, 
involves recovery of a stolen item, designated, Chimera. You may 
select any two team members, but it is essential that the third 
team member be Nyah Nordoff-Hall. She is a civilian, and a highly 
capable professional thief. You have forty-eight hours to recruit 
Miss Nordoff-Hall and meet me in Seville to receive your 
assignment. As always, should you or any member of your IM Force 
be caught or killed, the secretary will disavow all knowledge of 
your actions. And Mr. Hunt, the next time you go on holiday, 
please be good enough to tell us where your going.

FEMALE VOICE
This message will self-destruct in five seconds.

HUNT(to sunglasses)
If I let you know where I'm going, I won't be on holiday.

HUNT throws away the sunglasses and they explode in mid air. The 
explosion follows through to the main title and opening credits.

TITLE
MISSION
IMPOSSIBLE II

The TITLE explodes and shatters into many pieces. A Spanish 
dancer goes across the screen, which goes to the next scene.

INT. MANSION - SEVILLE - SPAIN - NIGHT

HUNT is in a crowded room with dancers in the middle, he walks 
around the dancers to see NYAH on the other side on the dancers. 
He follows her around the dancers. A dancer goes past and she 
disappears. HUNT continues looking for her. We see NYAH walk up a 
flight of stairs and up to a higher level. NYAH walks up to a 
window and puts on gloves. We cut between the dancers and her. 
NYAH walks across the level to another room. She pick the lock 
and enters the room. We cut back to the dancers who are finished. 
An applause erupts.

INT. ROOM - MANSION - NIGHT

NYAH is in the room, the applause can still be heard from there. 
She pulls out what looks like a make up case with a detector 
inside. The detector leads her to a bath where the beeps are 
getting faster. She pulls out a series of picks and slots cards. 
She finds a slot in the wall and picks it. A compartment next to 
her opens up with other compartments inside it and is unsure of 
which one to pick.

HUNT
I see you've found it.

NYAH turns around to see ETHAN HUNT sitting on the edge of the 
bath.

NYAH
What are you doing here?

HUNT
Think you're the only one who can pick a lock?

NYAH
Hmph! Not just a pretty face after all.

The HOST of the party enters the room. NYAH pulls HUNT into the 
bath. HUNT is on top of NYAH.

NYAH
Do you mind if I'm on top?

HUNT
No. Either way works for me.

The two turn around in the bath. NYAH comes on top. The HOST 
leaves the room with champagne and glasses, NYAH gets up and 
continues to pick at one of the locks.

HUNT
You'll never find it there.

NYAH loses concentration. 

NYAH
Damn it! Find what?

HUNT
His excellent Bvlgari necklace that goes up for auction on 
Tuesday.

NYAH
And are you going to tell me where it is?

HUNT
Far left.

NYAH starts picking at the lock.

NYAH
This is very disconcerting.

HUNT
Hey, you put me here. I just do as I'm told.

NYAH
Right!

NYAH picks the lock and opens the compartment to find a box. She 
opens the box to find the necklace. She undoes it and slips it 
between her breasts. She closes the box and puts it back in the 
compartment.

NYAH
Now, who are you? And what's it going to cost me?

HUNT
I wouldn't do that!

NYAH
What?

NYAH closes the compartment door and the alarm goes off.

HUNT
That!

Security guards swarm the room like a SWAT team. NYAH and HUNT 
quickly pack the gear away. HUNT calms the guards down.

HUNT
Tre kilo! Tre kilo!

HOST
Mr. Kieths, it is you. (to guards)It is Mr. Kieths, our security 
engineer. Apologise!

HUNT waves some gear behind his back to NYAH, she takes it.

HUNT
No, no need to apologise. Now Miss Hall, my associate, has your 
necklace in a very safe place. But obviously we do feel that the 
alarm should have gone off a little sooner. Isn't that right, 
Miss Hall?

NYAH
Oh! Absolutely. Much, much too long I'd say.

HUNT
(to HOST) 
With the circumstances, I'd think that we'd recommend that 
resetting the sensors to respond to a lighter to a lighter load. 
How do you feel about forty kilos, Miss Hall?

NYAH
Perfect!

HUNT
Shall we?

HUNT puts out his hand as if he asked to dance. He gets her hand 
and NYAH begins to walk about but HUNT pulls her back.

HUNT
Miss Hall?

NYAH
Hmm?

HUNT
Haven't you forgotten something?

NYAH pulls the necklace out from between her breasts. She hands 
it to the HOST.

HOST
What are you trying to do, Senorita? Rob me?

NYAH
The thought had crossed my mind.

EXT. GARDENS TO DRIVEWAY - MANSION - NIGHT

NYAH
I'm missing something here, aside from my half a million pound 
necklace. Even if I screwed up the job, I could be walking out of 
the bloody thing.

HUNT
At least you walked.

NYAH
If you weren't going to let me get away with it, then why did you 
let me go through it?

HUNT
To see how good you were. I was hoping that we might work 
together.

NYAH
Sounds terrific! Mu cha co!

A bell boy comes to her with her car.

NYAH
Now, be serious. What ever it is your talking about, you can not 
possibly want me after tonight's performance.

HUNT
You didn't do that badly!

NYAH
You apologising for me? Quite a gentleman.

HUNT
Not really, I triggered the alarm.

HUNT holds up a small remote and presses it. The alarm goes off.

HUNT
Sorry!

NYAH gets into her car.

NYAH
I don't do laundry, cook, or put up with cheeky bastards who set 
me up on their territories so they can poach on mine. 

NYAH puts the car into drive and drives off. Leaving HUNT 
standing on the driveway. 

EXT. MOUNTIAN HIGHWAY - SEVILLE - SPAIN - DAY

The scene starts off with a shot of the sun rising. We then get 
an over head shot of NYAH's car. Then move to get a shot of her 
face while driving. Suddenly, her phone goes off. She answers it.

NYAH
Hello?

HUNT(OS)
Hi! Would you mind slowing down?

NYAH
Where did you get this number? I don't even have it?

HUNT's car comes from the bushes and begins to follow her. We get 
a shot of HUNT. 

HUNT
Would you like it?

NYAH sees him in her rear view mirror. HUNT waves back. NYAH 
hangs up. HUNT redials the number. The phone doesn't answer. HUNT 
drives his car to make it along side NYAH's car.

HUNT
Pull over and listen to me, will ya? Just listen.

NYAH
Listen to what? 

HUNT
I need your help! And then you can use mine.

NYAH
Your help?! What are you talking about?

HUNT
I'm talking about Scotland Yard, Interpol, every Dutch authority. 
I can make them all go away.

NYAH
Oh bloody hell! You're a spy!

HUNT smiles. NYAH looks unhappy.

NYAH
If you want me, you gotta catch me!

NYAH rams HUNT'S car.

HUNT
Whoa!

NYAH speeds off, HUNT is behind her. A car chase starts. HUNT 
nearly hits a car but misses and straps his seat belt on. HUNT 
smiles and drives to NYAH's side.

HUNT
Having fun?

NYAH rams HUNT off the road, his car spins back onto the road and 
nearly misses an on-coming car.

HUNT
Sorry!

HUNT is still behind NYAH. Hunt comes onto the other side and 
again missing a car.

HUNT
Sorry!

The two continue to drive.

HUNT
Watch the road! Watch the road!

NYAH sees an on-coming car and goes off the road and comes back 
on. Another car drives into NYAH's car and she hits HUNT's car. 
HUNT and NYAH's cars are spinning together on the road. The cars 
stop spinning at the edge of the highway. NYAH falls from her 
seat and is holding onto the door. There is a big drop. HUNT 
comes and picks her up.

NYAH
What is your name?

HUNT
Ethan Hunt.

NYAH
Well, Ethan Hunt. What is it that you want to talk to me about?

HUNT
A lot more than I thought.

NYAH
Awfully short notice.

HUNT
Care to wait a decent interpol?

NYAH
Who wants to be decent!

The two begin to kiss in NYAH'a car. The picture fades to a small 
window.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - SEVILLE - SPAIN - DAY

We pan from the window to the bed. We see HUNT in the bed. We 
continue to pan to see NYAH also In the bed. HUNT is being 
affectionate to NYAH. She wakes up.

HUNT
What have you got against spies?

NYAH makes a funny comment. They both laugh.

HUNT
This wasn't exactly by the book!

NYAH
What kind of book do they have?

HUNT
Oh, they got a book for everything.

NYAH
So, this thing that these bloke pinched.

HUNT
I don't know who pinched it. I don't even know what it is?

NYAH
Then what am I doing here?

The two smile and laugh.

NYAH
What are you suppose to be? A thief to catch a thief?

HUNT
Sort of!

The two roll over in the bed with HUNT on top of NYAH.

HUNT
Damn your beautiful.

NYAH smiles. The two then kiss and make out in the bed.

EXT. CITY STREETS - SEVILLE - SPAIN - NIGHT

We see metal sculptures with flames lit in them. We see people 
with huge crosses with the Jesus figure. The people are singing 
and chanting hymns. Hunt walks through the crowd and up a flight 
of stairs to a room.

INT. ROOM - CITY - SEVILLE - SPAIN - NIGHT

HUNT enters the room to see SWANBECK at the window. SWANBECK sees 
HUNT.

SWANBECK
Espresso, cappuccino?

HUNT
No thanks.

SWANBECK
Sit down, sit down!

HUNT sits down at a big table. Next to him is a laptop. SWANBECK 
walks around. 

SWANBECK
Festivals are a pain in the ass. Honouring their saints by 
setting them on fire. Let's you know what they think of saints, 
doesn't it? Damn nearly set me on fire on my way over here. Sorry 
I barged in on your vacation.

HUNT
I'm sorry I didn't let you know where I was.

SWANBECK
Don't be. It wouldn't be a vacation if you did.

HUNT
Well, you're sorry and I'm sorry!

SWANBECK
Why did you phrase it like that?

HUNT
Like what?

SWANBECK
Your sorry and I'm sorry.

HUNT
You got to be kidding?

SWANBECK opens the laptop and accesses a video file. The file 
appears with NEKHOROVICH sitting in a chair. SWANBECK plays the 
file.

NEKHOROVICH(OC)
Well Dimitri, once again I need your help, just as in the old 
days, when you saved our lives, saved our very sanity. Dimitri, 
we have this little problem. Every search for a hero must begin 
with something that every hero requires, a villain. Therefore, in 
our search for our hero, Belariform, we created the monster, 
Chimera. I beg you, Dimitri, come to Sydney and accompany me to 
Atlanta immediately. However we travel, I must arrive at my 
destination within twenty hours of departure. I fear that I can 
not entrust this to no one but you. Dimitri, as we say I am sorry 
and you are sorry.

The video file finishes.

SWANBECK
Do you have any idea what the hell he's talking about?

HUNT
An idea? Yep!

SWANBECK
Like?

HUNT
Like, it's a good to pick him up in a hurry, but a bad idea to 
fly him on a commercial carrier. Is he still in Sydney?

SWANBECK
Doctor Vladimir Nekhorovich is dead, so is his colleague, 
Gradski, but that happened earlier. We had Nekhrovich on a flight 
from Sydney that crashed in the Rockys.

HUNT
Dead?!

SWANBECK
Are you listening to me?

HUNT
If he didn't want to go anywhere without me, how did you get him 
on that flight?

SWANBECK
Oh, you were there!

SWANBECK accesses another file with HUNT's and AMBROSE's faces 
and facial records.

SWANBECK
When I couldn't find you, I had to replace you. Sean Ambrose was 
the obvious choice. He doubled you two or three times?

HUNT
Twice!

SWANBECK
What did you think of him?

HUNT
We had our reservations about each other. Isn't it a little late 
in the day to be askin' me that?

SWANBECK
No, not necessarily. (to man) Airline records. 

The man hands SWANBECK photos and records.

SWANBECK
Mr. Captain Harold Macintosh is the pilot of the flight 2207. As 
the media and government agencies are concerned, Captain 
Macintosh died in the flight. Infact, he missed it, but he did 
however make the next flight in cargo, stuffed into a rather 
small suitcase considering his size.

SWANBECK hands the photos and records to HUNT.

SWANBECK
Now, someone on that flight planned an operation designed to 
bring the plane down and make it look like an accident. Someone 
skilled enough to bring the whole thing off the ledge.

HUNT
So there is one thing that we know that Ambrose doesn't!

SWANBECK
And you do think it was Ambrose. Your not surprised.

HUNT
Ambrose feels he hasn't done the job unless he leaves a lot of 
hats on the ground.

SWANBECK
The question is "Why?". What was this "Chimera" that Nekhorovich 
was carrying.

HUNT
Only Ambrose knows that.

SWANBECK
Then in case, you must recover this "Chimera" and bring it to us.

HUNT
In order to do that he figures out to make money. 

SWANBECK
That is where Miss Hall comes in.

HUNT
Excuse me?

SWANBECK
Miss hall and Ambrose had a relationship, which she took very 
seriously. She walked away and he has been wanting her back ever 
since. I believe that she is the surest and quickest way of 
finding him.

HUNT
And then what?

SWANBECK
Make sure she continues to see him, gets him to confide in her 
and report to you.

HUNT stands up.

HUNT
You made it sound as if I was recruiting her for skills as a 
thief.

SWANBECK
Well then I miss lead you or you made the wrong assumption, 
either way, we are asking her to resume her prior relationship 
not doing anything she has already done. Voluntarily, I might 
add.

HUNT
No she's got no training for this kinda thing.

SWANBECK
But to go to be with a man and lie to him, she's awomen, she's 
got all the training that she needs.

HUNT
I don't think I can get her to do it.

SWANBECK
You mean it will be difficult?

HUNT
Very!

SWANBECK
Well, this is not Mission
Difficult, Mr. Hunt, it's Mission
Impossible. Difficult should be a walk in the park for you. I'm 
open to suggestions if you can think of a quicker way to Ambrose, 
your welcome to try. By the way, you might want to look at these 
if you have any further problems about her getting to do the job.

The man places a digital camera on the table. HUNT looks at the 
camera.

EXT. CITY STREETS - SEVILLE - SPAIN - NIGHT

We get a shot of HUNT walking through the crowd in slow motion.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - SEVILLE - SPAIN - NIGHT

NYAH is viewing the photos from the camera on a laptop. She looks 
unhappy. She gets out of her seat.

NYAH
How many people are capable of something like that?

HUNT
Sean Ambrose for one!

NYAH
Hmph! Right!

NYAH walks to the balcony outside. HUNT follows her.

HUNT
This wasn't what I had in mind, Nyah.

NYAH
But it is what you'd like me to do.

HUNT turns around, but doesn't say anything.

NYAH
What? Oh, let my conscience be my guide, is that it?

HUNT
Something like that!

NYAH
I don't have a conscience. I'm a bloody thief. Are you going to 
try to force me to do this?

HUNT
Generally, I don't favour coursing someone not when there's a 
chance my life can end up in their hands.

NYAH
Is that the only reason?

HUNT shakes his head "no".

HUNT
Can you think of a better way?

NYAH
Me? No! But I was just hoping you might thinking somewhere in 
this course of business that this got personal as well as 
physical.

HUNT
Would it make you feel better if I didn't want you to do this?

NYAH
Yeah, much better!

HUNT
Then feel better.

HUNT turns away and looks back into the street.

NYAH
You know, Sean will never be anything but suspicious if I said 
"Hey honey, I'm home".

HUNT
What wouldn't make him suspicious?

NYAH
That I needed him in some urgent way! Destitute. In serious 
trouble, the guy can not possibly sort out myself.

HUNT
Serious trouble, Nyah! Something I can always arrange. 

We see NYAH have her mug shots taken from all sides of her face. 
We then cut to HUNT holding a small tracer in his hand.

HUNT(VO)
This transponder chip is completely untraceable.

Another shot sees NYAH'S ankle being injected with the 
transponder.

HUNT(VO)
It transmits your location to a satellite which can be read by 
only this computer. 

We see shots of a satellite and HUNT typing on a computer.

HUNT(VO)
We can track you within three feet.

We see maps on the screen quickly zooming in on NYAH's location.

HUNT(VO)
Since you arrest and in sending news bulletins to every law 
enforcement agency in the world.

We see AMBROSE typing on the computer, getting information on 
NYAH.

HUNT(VO)
I know Sean Ambrose. I guarantee after that airline crash, he's 
monitoring everywhere. He knows your out there, and he has the 
means to get you out.

We see shots of AMBROSE's screen saying things like "DETENTION" 
and "SEVILLE". AMBROSE smiles.

HUNT(VO)
Nyah! Nyah! I'm not going to lose you.

We see NYAH exit a building like a free woman. We then see a shot 
of a sunglass lense, with her reflection.

EXT. HARBOUR - SYDNEY - AUSTRALIA - DAY

We see some aerial shots of the city, harbour and monuments. We 
then see a speed boat with NYAH sitting at the back. The speed 
boat is speeding through the harbour.

EXT. BUSH - AUSTRALIA - DAY

Wee see a helicopter come from the bottom of the screen. Suddenly 
a shot of a profile comes up with the name "BAIRD, BILLY". We get 
a shot of BILLY and a few shots of the bush.
Another profile comes up. It comes up as "STICKELL, LUTHER". We 
get a shot of STICKELL and more bush. We see the chopper land at 
a farm. HUNT comes out from a shack. He walks up to the. BAIRD 
and STICKELL exit the chopper.

BAIRD
Ethan Hunt! G'day mate, I'm William Baird but Billy is okay. If 
there's anything you need, move or watch, just let me know and 
I'm your man. I'll go have a look around. Har har!

STICKELL walks up to HUNT and accidentally steps on manure.

STICKELL
Shit!

HUNT
Yes it is!

HUNT smiles.

STICKELL
This ain't funny! I paid for these eighth hundred dollar shoes 
and you got me in a chopper with this man.

EXT. HARBOUR - SYDNEY - DAY

We see the boat still in the harbour. We then get a shot of 
AMBROSE in his house as the boat comes. The boat comes to the 
pier, AMBROSE comes out, STAMP is on the balcony.

INT. SHACK - BUSH - DAY

We see a map appear and NYAH's transponder on the map as well.

STICKELL
Computer's up! I got her!

HUNT
Let us put in the coordinates, get a visual.

STICKELL enters the coordinates. The satellite moves into 
position.

EXT. PIER - AMBROSE'S HOUSE - DAY

NYAH gets of the boat and walks up the pier. AMBROSE watches her. 
We get a shot of him at the end of the pier and NYAH comes from 
behind the camera.

INT. SHACK - BUSH - DAY

HUNT
Visual is not coming up.

STICKELL
The satellite doesn't work as fast as I do.

BAIRD
Yeah, I heard about you, Luther. I just want to say that it's an 
honour and a pleasure to be working with you blokes.

STICKELL finally gets the visual up.

HUNT
Come on, isn't there any way to speed this up?

STICKELL
With what? This is the only computer that will do this.

The visual disappears back to the map.


EXT. PIER - AMBROSE'S HOUSE - DAY

NYAH is still walking up the pier to AMBROSE. STAMP watches from 
the balcony of the house. Her scarf comes loose by the wind. 
AMBROSE catches it with one hand and puts it back around her 
neck. AMBROSE pulls her closer and kisses her.

INT. SHACK - BUSH - DAY

STICKELL has the visual up and working.

STICKELL
Ethan! Here we go!

The visual shows AMBROSE and NYAH kissing.

BAIRD
Hey! Now there's a bloke who knows how to give a proper welcome.

STICKELL looks at BAIRD.

BAIRD
I don't wanna get you wrong mate, but you were very friendly 
also. Is it him then?

STICKELL
It's him Billy!

BAIRD
Yeah, so we got him!

HUNT
We don't know what we got! Because we don't know what he's got, 
where he's got and what he's doing in Sydney with it.

HUNT turns away and looks outside.

EXT. PIER - AMBROSE'S HOUSE - DAY

The two finish kissing. AMBROSE sees her bag.

AMBROSE
Not much luggage.

NYAH
I left in a bit if a hurry. I'm trying to be grateful, Sean. How 
in the world did you find me?

AMBROSE
How I usually find you, Nyah. Magic!

AMBROSE takes her bag and they walk up the stairs. STAMP leaves 
the balcony.

INT. SECURTIY ROOM - AMBROSE'S HOUSE - DAY

WALLIS is monitoring NYAH, STAMP enters.

WALLIS
No flies on her, no bugs either, no transmissions. She's clean.

STAMP
All cats are!

INT. AMBROSE'S BEDROOM - DAY

AMBROSE and NYAH enter the bedroom.

NYAH
Your bedroom! (pauses) My bedroom?

AMBROSE walks around NYAH, looking at her.

INT. SHACK - DAY

HUNT is staring at the dot of NYAH's transmission on the computer 
screen.

STICKELL
She did it! She's in the compound!

HUNT
Yeah! We just rolled up a snowball and tossed it into hell. Now 
we'll see what chance it has.

INT. AMBROSE'S BEDROOM - DAY

AMBROSE
Try it on.

AMBROSE gives her a dress.

AMBROSE
Go ahead.

He stands back.

AMBROSE
I'm dying to see if I remembered your size.

NYAH turns around and begins to undress herself. She grabs the 
dress but suddenly AMBROSE grabs her wrist.

NYAH
You're not interested in seeing how it looks.

AMBROSE
Oh, I am. Later.

EXT. SHACK - LATER AFTERNOOM

HUNT walks out of the shack and sees the sun setting.

NEKHOROVICH(OC)
Every search for a hero must begin with something that every hero 
requires...

INT. SHACK - LATE AFTERNOON

STICKELL is drinking coffee, HUNT is standing up. Both listening 
to NEKHOROVICH's video.

NEKOVICH(OC)(VO)
 ...a villain, therefore in our search for our hero, Belairiform, 
we created a monster, Chimera.

STICKELL
Nekhorovich was a molecular biologist, why is he going on about 
and old Greek myth?

HUNT
Nekhorovich specialised in recombining DNA molecules. And the 
myth, Belairiform was a prince who killed the Chimera. A monster 
with a head of a lion and a tail of a serpent, that plagued the 
ancient world. I think Nekhorovich created a monster virus in 
Chimera. And you need an anti virus to kill it called 
Belairiform.

STICKELL
That simple, huh?

HUNT
Why not?

AMBROSE'S STUDY - DAY

STAMP and AMBROSE are sitting in lounge chairs. AMBROSE has a 
magnifying glass and sheets of paper with photos on them. STAMP 
sits quietly.

AMBROSE
Thirty-seven million pounds. Well that's a promising bid for 
Nekovich's work. Don't look so worried Hugh, we're half way 
there.

AMBROSE packs a memory card in a case and slots it into an 
envelope.

AMBROSE
We'll need that at the track, if we're going to get the other 
half.

AMBROSE hands the envelope to STAMP, who just sits there.

AMBROSE
Well then, all sorted!

STAMP gets up and throws the envelope onto the table and looks at 
NYAH sleeping in the bed.

STAMP
Not everything!

STAMP closes a slide door.

STAMP
Why do you think she's really here?

AMBROSE
From her point of view or mine?

STAMP
She wasn't exactly gagging for you when she left you six months 
ago. The question is do you trust her?

AMBROSE gets a cigar from a box and closes the lid.

AMBROSE
Well it considers her timing of course. Getting nicked within a 
week of the plane going down. Suggestive even boarder line 
suspicious, but hardly conclusive.

AMBROSE has a cigar cutter in his hand and cuts the end of a 
cigar off.

STAMP
Well, you thought about it at that rate.

AMBROSE blows on the cigar cutter.

AMBROSE
Tell me Hugh, you don't exactly hang on Nyah's every word and 
gesture, do you?

AMBROSE looks at STAMP's pinkie finger.

AMBROSE
That's a very ratty nail there.

AMBROSE puts STAMP in a lock position. AMBROSE puts the cigar 
cutter on his pinkie finger.

STAMP
Sean, please!

AMBROSE
Suppose she is a Trojan horse sent in by IMF to spy on us. Why 
shouldn't I have the pleasure of a ride or two? Or you think I 
can't learn from her more than she can learn from me?

STAMP
I do! I do! I do! I do!

AMBROSE
Hugh, you must realise that some of us have pedantic more sex to 
do with. I may or may not know why she think she's here, but I 
wanted to take the risk because you, I am gunning for it.

AMBROSE cuts a bit of STAMP's finger off. STAMP screams.

EXT. RACE COURSE - DAY

We see horses racing to the finishing line, people are cheering 
their betted horses. The horses cross the line, NYAH and AMBROSE 
are celebrating their win.

AMBROSE
Darling, you won!

NYAH
Well, I suppose I did.

AMBROSE
Who did you pick that time?

NYAH
Thief in the line.

AMBROSE
Say no more!

AMBROSE sees STAMP.

AMBROSE
I'm going to grab a drink. Do you still favour those Berlinis?

NYAH
Mmmm!

They kiss. STAMP watches them from a distance. He picks at his 
bandaged finger. NYAH sits back down in her seat. BAIRD, dressed 
as a doorman, walks to NYAH.

BAIRD
Naturally Vain!

NYAH
Pardon me?

BAIRD
Naturally Vain, in the fourth. Check her out, she's cute.

BAIRD hands her a tips book and leaves. She opens it to see a 
small earpiece and an instruction saying "Put this in your ear." 
NYAH looks worried and quickly puts it in her ear.

HUNT(VO)
You can speck as if I'm right by your side.

Cut to HUNT next to track.

NYAH(VO)
Where are you?

HUNT
Manet enclosure, just off the track, two O'clock.

NYAH stands up and find HUNT with her binoculars. HUNT does the 
same thing.

HUNT(VO)
How is it going?

NYAH
Just like old times!

Cut to HUNT.

HUNT
Just like old times?

Cut to NYAH.

NYAH
Just about!

Cut to HUNT.

HUNT
Tell me who you ran into a Ambrose's.

Cut to NYAH.

NYAH
Near as I can tell, there is about half a dozen other blokes 
about...

Cut to HUNT.

NYAH(VO)
...the place, maybe more.

Cut to NYAH.

NYAH
Hugh Stamp, old friend of Sean's, he's the only one I recognise, 
and a bit of a creep.

Cut to HUNT.

HUNT
We know him. He's over your left shoulder looking at you right 
now.

Cut to NYAH.

NYAH has a worried look on her face.

Cut to HUNT.

NYAH(VO)
Ambrose has photos of news papers with money piled on them, 
thirty-seven million on the London Times, what's that about?

HUNT
Bids for possible Chimera virus.

We see AMBROSE walk into a bar. BAIRD sees him and brings up his 
binoculars to see what is going on. AMBROSE sits down at a table 
with a man.

BAIRD
Ambrose is meeting some bloke in a bar...

Cut to STICKELL in a van near the course.

BAIRD(VO)
...ginger hair. They're into something.

AMBROSE inserts the memory card into a camera. HUNT moves his 
binoculars to see him. HUNT zooms in on the man.

Cut to STICKELL.

HUNT(VO)
Who is this guy?

STICKELL
Checking now, Ethan!

STICKELL's computer does an analysis on the man and it comes up 
with a result.

STICKELL
John McCloy, CEO BioCyte Pharmaceuticals...

Cut to HUNT.

STICKELL(VO)
1989, acquired BioCyte in a ...

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
...hostile takeover.

HUNT(VO)
He was Nekhorovich's boss!

STICKELL
Right! He worked with him as a research scientist at BioCyte.

AMBROSE shows McCLOY something on a camera.

STICKELL
Ambrose is showing something to...

Cut to HUNT.

STICKELL(VO)
...McCloy on a digital camera.

We get a shot of McCLOY's face.

HUNT
Whatever McCloy is looking at, he's not to happy about it.

McCloy lands the camera back. AMBROSE takes out the memory card. 
McCLOY leaves the table.


Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
Ambrose just pulled the camera's memory card andput it in an 
envelope.

We see MABROSE place the envelope in his jacket.

STICKELL(VO)
Put it in his inner-left jacket pocket.

Cut to HUNT.

HUNT
Confirm left jacket pocket.

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
Roger that!

Cut to HUNT.

HUNT sees AMBROSE leave the bar.

HUNT
Nyah, now Ambrose is on his way back to you. There's an envelope 
inside his...

Cut to NYAH.

NYAH
...left jacket pocket.

Cut to HUNT.

HUNT
That's right!

Cut to NYAH.

NYAH
Where do I meet you?

HUNT(VO)
Betting table twelve, off the paddock.

We see AMBROSE a few steps away.

Cut to HUNT.

HUNT
Are you sure you're up to this?

Cut to NYAH.

NYAH
I'll run it through.

NYAH turns around to see AMBROSE.

NYAH
There you are!

AMBROSE
Who else would you like?

NYAH gets close to AMBROSE and takes the envelope from him 
without him knowing.

NYAH
Naturally Vain! They're about to close the betting and haven't a 
bean.

AMBROSE
Nyah!

NYAH grabs a fifty-dollar note from his pocket.

NYAH
Would you mind terribly?

AMBROSE
Not at all! But, um, you are going to pay for it and with 
interest.

NYAH
I have no doubt.

NYAH begins to walk away from AMBROSE.

AMBROSE
Hold on!

NYAH stops. She turns around and drops the envelope into her 
hand. AMBROSE walks up to her. She puts the envelope in her pants 
pocket. HUNT watches her with his binoculars.

AMBROSE
Put down a thousand for me!

AMBROSE takes out a small pile of 100's and gives NYAH ten notes. 
She smiles.

NYAH
To win?

AMBROSE
Why else!

She walks off. HUNT walks off the enclosure to the betting 
tables.

HUNT
Billy, make sure that...

Cut to BAIRD.

HUNT(VO)
...Nyah isn't followed!

BAIRD
No worries mate!

BAIRD walks off.

Cut to HUNT.

HUNT
Luther, digital camera, ready to transmit, betting table twelve.

STICKELL opens up a briefcase and takes a camera. We see NYAH 
walk through the bar, STAMP is there having a drink, he begins 
following her. BAIRD is at a doorway, he opens the door for NYAH 
but slams it on STAMP.

BAIRD
Oh! Sorry about that, mate! That must of...

STAMP slams him up against the wall.

STAMP
Say again!

BAIRD can't speak.

STAMP
Where ever you are about in future next time, watch you step. You 
don't know who you might run into.

STAMP shows his bandaged finger bleeding.

STAMP
So where's the loo?

BAIRD points.

STAMP
Thanks, mate!

STAMP lets go. BAIRD regains his breath.

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL exits the van and runs to the betting tables with the 
camera.

EXT. BETTING TABLES - DAY

People are betting on which horses for the race. NYAH walks into 
the crowd. She looks around. HUUNT suddenly appears behind her.

HUNT
How'd you do?

NYAH almost turns around.

HUNT
Don't turn around.

NYAH
I managed.

NYAH turns around.

HUNT
You turned around.

NYAH
What are you going to do, spank me?

STICKELL arrives to see them face each other. STICKELL coughs to 
get attention. HUNT takes the camera. STICKELL runs back to the 
van. NYAH takes out the envelope and hands it to HUNT. She turns 
back around. HUNT inserts the memory card into the camera. 
STICKELL arrives at the van and enters.

STICKELL
(puffing) I'm booted up! Go Ethan!

Cut to BETTING TABLES.

HUNT starts the transmission of the memory card.

HUNT
Are you getting this?

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL is typing in codes and begins to receive the 
transmission.

STICKELL
Sergei Gradski, twenty hours after exposeure.

STICKELL and HUNT view the footage. The footage shows stills of a 
man getting weak and cells being destroyed. We see GRADSKI's face 
bleed.

STICKELL
God!

We see BAIRD looking outside a window. we see STAMP enter the 
crowd.

BAIRD
Stamp's out of the loo. He coming to the table, heading your way, 
mate!

Cut to HUNT and NYAH.

HUNT
I want you out of Ambrose's place.

NYAH
What are you talking about? What did you see?

STAMP sees NYAH.

BAIRD
Okay, he's coming right behind you, Ethan.

HUNT
(to NYAH)
You've done your job, now I want you out ofAustralia.

STAMP gets closer.

BAIRD
Thirty steps.

NYAH
(to HUNT) 
How do you suggest I go about it?

BAIRD
Twenty, nineteen.

HUNT
(to NYAH) 
That's so hard, your over whelmed, you need to think it over.

BAIRD
Fifthteen, fourteen.

HUNT puts the card back into the envelope. NYAH hands in the bet.

HUNT
I want you out of here with in an hour. Give me your earpiece. 

BAIRD
Nine, Ethan, eight!

HUNT
If you don't get out of here, I'm coming into get you.

NYAH drops the envelope, she picks it up.

BAIRD
Ethan, get out of there.

NYAH stands up and turns to see STAMP.

STAMP
Place your bet, madam?

The ticket is made.

NYAH
Just!

Walks back to the pavilion. The horses are released. Everyone is 
cheering.

AMBROSE
Come on! Come on!

NYAH slips the envelope back into his right pocket jactet 
instead. Suddenly AMBROSE goes quiet. AMBROSE continues to cheer 
and their horse wins again. They celebrate again.

AMBROSE
You picked another winner.


INT. AMBROSE'S STUDY - DAY

STAMP is already in the room, AMBROSE enters and sits at his 
computer.

STAMP
I thought you are out for dinner?

AMBROSE
Hugh, take care of the Nekhorvich memory card.

STAMP
Where is it?

AMBROSE
My jacket pocket.

STAMP walks to the jacket.

AMBROSE
My right jacket pocket.

AMBROSE accesses a video file of a BIOCYTE commercial. STAMP 
finds the memory card.

AMBROSE
We've got a great opportunity here, I'm not going to waste it.

INT. LOBBY - BIOCYTE - NIGHT

We see McCLOY exit the elevators and walk past the reception 
desk.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

We see McCLOY enter the street. We also see WALLIS in a car with 
another man. McCLOY enters his limo.

McCLOY(VO)
George, take me home!

McCLOY's limo leaves, WALLIS begins to tail him.

INT. LIMO - NIGHT

McCLOY bites on a cigar, but it tastes bad. he presses a button 
to open the window, but doesn't respond.

McCLOY
George!

Tries the other window.

McCLOY
George!

The driver doesn't respond.

McCLOY sits back and sees a newspaper under his briefcase. He 
picks it up and sees a shocking article.

McCLOY
What the hell?!

McCLOY locks on the privacy screen.

McCLOY
George!

The driver presses the air con button. The vents emit gas. McCLOY 
sees the gas and struggles.

McCLOY
George! George!

McCLOY coughs continuously and then falls to the seat 
unconscious. 

INT. AMBROSE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

NYAH is wondering around the dark house. She walks around several 
rooms, calling AMBROSE.

NYAH
Sean?

She moves quietly.

NYAH
Sean?

She finds that AMBROSE isn't around. She leaves the house and 
runs further up the compound to a different building. We get a 
shot of the sentries. She continues for the higher building. She 
sees a sentry torch coming towards her and goes the other way. 
She runs through a back way, and suddenly is caught by HUNT, who 
tells her to quiet.

INT. HOSITAL ROOM - NIGHT

We see McCLOY wake up in a hospital bed. The bed is surrounded by 
a plastic sheet. He sees NEKHORVICH on the other side. McCLOY is 
not breathing well. Everything sounds like a dream.

McCLOY
What is this?

NEKHORVICH
A visit from an old friend.

McCLOY
You crashed in the plane. Your dead!

NEKHORVICH
Died certainly, but dead is a little extreme. On the other hand, 
when my colleague, Gradski had your pulse and your blood 
pressure, he had less than a day to live. You're infected with 
Chimera, my friend.

McCLOY looks worried and presses a button for help.

NEKHORVICH
No use, my friend. Medical staff wants no part of this. Doctors 
don't fit the idea of dying any more than anyone else.

McCLOY
How could I possibly be infected?

NEKHORVICH
That's what exactly Gradski said, twenty-seven hours before he 
died.

McCLOY
You've got the antidote, you miserable bastard. You stole 
Belairiform, all of it...

NEKHORVICH
My, my, my!

McCLOY
...I need it, I need it now you warned down Russian gipsy.

NEKHORVICH
And what about Gradski, who you deliberately infected with 
Chimera.

McCLOY
How was I to know they needed to be treated with Belairiform 
within twenty hours.

NEKHORVICH
By asking me!

McCLOY
You still don't get it do you. I needed to see just how bad the 
disease was in the real world, not just the lab. You and 
geneticists splicing strains of influenza, to create a cure for 
all influenzas, you also created a disease so terrible than 
Chimera, the cure would be priceless. I needed Chimera in order 
to pedal Belairform. It's not that difficult to understand, is 
it? Look, I've got the virus, you've got the cure. I needed them 
both. Time wasn't sure if penicillin would knock off every bug in 
the zoo. Not any more, if I couldn't make money killing those 
microscopic shits that are out there or you'd help me put one out 
there that I could make money on. There it is, I've confessed. I 
John C. McCloy, am in business to make money. Now forget any deal 
you may have made with that thug, Ambrose, let me treat it and 
lets go back to work.

NEKHORVICH
You know, I think it's a little late for tat. Do give my regards 
to Gradski, if you see him.

NEKHORVICH leaves. Gas starts filling inside the plastic barrier 
around McCLOY. He falls back unconscious. We see a shot of 
NEKHORVICH exit through a partition.

NEKHORVICH
Well...

NEKHORVICH rips off his face to reveal HUNT.

HUNT(NEKHORVICH'S voice)
... I've heard...

HUNT rips off a voice changing device.

HUNT
... all I need to hear.

EXT. AMBROSE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

HUNT and NYAH are up against a wall in the dark around AMBROSE's 
compound.

HUNT
Nyah! It's imperative that we do nothing to alarm Ambrose.

NYAH
What? You told me to get out of there as soom as possible. And 
you're coming here to collect me, I was so relieved.

HUNT
Shh! Shhh! Listen to me, there's no time to talk. It's critical, 
absolutely critical, that you do what ever Ambrose says. Do you 
understand me?

NYAH nods.

HUNT
Don't worry, it'll all be over, very soon.

NAYH tries to kiss, but HUNT pulls away. HUNT smiles.

HUNT
That's a promise. Off you go!

NYAH heads back to the compound. HUNT rips off his face to reveal 
AMBROSE. He rips of a voice changing device.

INT. STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT

We see HUNT taking off a jacket. He talks to STICKELL.

HUNT
Luther, we know this much. Nekhorvich gets on a plane to go to 
the centre for disease control in Atlanta. He's carrying a virus 
he created, Chimera, and a cure for that virus, Belairiform. 
Ambrose doesn't have the virus.

STICKELL
That's why Ambrose needs McCloy!

HUNT
So we go into BioCyte, kill Chimera, Ambrose has a cure without a 
disease and we're home free.

EXT. AMBROSE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

STAMP is also outside with AMBROSE.

STAMP
You were right! Hunt stung McCloy tonight. So he knows, they'll 
be going into BioCyte.

AMBROSE
Good! So we'll know where he'll be, don't we? Well done, Hugh, 
well done!

EXT. McCLOY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

McCLOY'S limo reaches the front gate and stops.

INT. LIMO - NIGHT

We see McCLOY asleep. The driver, who is BAIRD honks his horn. 
McCLOY wakes up.

BAIRD
Oi! You're home, mate! Home!

McCLOY
Where's George, my regular driver? Where is he?

BAIRD
He's gone home sick, touch of the flu.

INT. SHACK - NIGHT

HUNT, STICKELL and BAIRD are examining the BioCyte building. We 
also cut between AMBROSE as well.

HUNT
Building up and running?

STICKELL brings up an island model on the computer.

HUNT
That's not exactly it?

STICKELL
Sorry, but this is a BioCyte facility. The storage structure. 
I'll have it up in a minute.

STICKELL brings up the correct model.

STICKELL
Okay, take a look at this.

HUNT
Start from the inside out.

STICKELL
All storage and production of Chimera is done here, in this lab 
on the forty-second floor.

Cut to AMBROSE.

AMBROSE
Hunt's target will be the Chimera, stored and manufactured at 
BioCyte on the forty-second floor. If you looked at Hunt's 
operation history, and I have, he invariably favours misdirection 
over confrontation. He'll never break into BioCyte from the 
bottom where security is heaviest.

We see a computer model of the lobby morph into the actual lobby.

Cut to SHACK.

STICKELL
No garage entrances, lobby's protected by five guards on rotating 
patrol.

HUNT
Not going in from the ground. Show me the atrium.

STICKELL shows the atrium on the computer model.

STICKELL
The atrium, one of a kind. Runs down through the centre of the 
building. Provides twenty-four hours of natural light via mirrors 
and daylight storage cells, optimum growing conditions for the 
virus. Ends in a glass floor which doubles as a part of the labs 
ceiling.

STICKELL shows the louvres move on the model.

STICKELL
Uh ah! The atrium roof closes at sun down. If the louvres are up 
for more than forty seconds at night, the civil alarm will be 
tripped, even those I can't stop. Ethan, we got a total of forty 
seconds to get you in and the cables out.

Cut to AMBROSE.

AMBROSE
No! Hunt will prefer to enter BioCyte somewhere from the top 
where security os minimal. He'll engage in some aerobatic 
insanity before harming a hair on a guard's head.

EXT. TOP OF BIOCYTE - CITY - NIGHT

BAIRD flies a helicopter to the top of BioCyte. HUNT loads a gun 
and holsters it.

Cut to STICKELL in a VAN on the street.

HUNT(VO)
Luther, how we doin'?

STICKELL
Not there yet, Ethan. I'll give you the word.

STICKELL works quickly on the computers.

Cut to CHOPPER.

HUNT
Billy, ready to go?

BAIRD nods. HUNT secures his cable to the chopper. He lets out 
some cable to make himself horizontal.

BAIRD
Okay, make your way in five...

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
I'm not ready yet! The louvres aren't moving!

Cut to CHOPPER.

BAIRD
Come on, Luther, we gotta go!

STICKELL(VO)
Wait, there's a glitch in the access code.

BAIRD
Luther, we're out of time. On the count.

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
Please baby, open up!

STICKELL types in the last keys of the code.

Cut to CHOPPER.

BAIRD
Five... four...

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
Come on!

BAIRD(VO)
Three...

Cut to CHOPPER.

BAIRD
Two... one...

HUNT
I'm going down!

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
Ethan, wait!

Cut to CHOPPER.

HUNT pushes himself off the chopper and is falling. STICKELL 
finally opens the louvres and HUNT makes it in. BAIRD laughs. 
HUNT continues falling down the atrium until he sees the glass 
floor. HUNT pulls tight on the cable. HUNT is only one metre off 
the glass, but is visible to a guard, who is turned away. HUNT 
manoeuvres himself to not be seen. The guard turns and sees 
nothing.

STICKELL(VO)
Twenty five... twenty four... twenty three...

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
Twenty two... twenty one... twenty...

Cut to ATRIUM.

STICKELL(VO)
Ethan, you've got nineteen seconds to clear the cable.

HUNT flips backwards and at the same time disconnects his cable. 
He hides against the wall under the window. the guard turns again 
and sees nothing.

Cut to CHOPPER.

BAIRD
Retracting cable. 

BAIRD presses a button and the cable begins to go up.

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL is watching the louvres on the on the computer and the 
clock counting down.

Cut to CHOPPER.

BAIRD
Come on! Come on!

The cable is still coming up.

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two...

The louvres begin to close. The cable makes it out, just touching 
a louvre. The louvres close.

Cut to CHOPPER.

BAIRD
Cable's clear.

The chopper evacuates the roof and leaves.

Cut to ATRIUM.

We see HUNT still against the wall. The guard leaves. HUNT 
presses a button on his watch.

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
Transponder activated. Reading package and cable clear.

Cut to ATRIUM.

HUNT walks away from the wall and goes to the glass floor. He 
pulls out something, which looks like a metallic protractor and 
places it on the glass.

Cut to AMBROSE.

AMBROSE
He'll breach the lab at the only possible time, wether you break 
in from the ground or the roof. It's twenty hours one minute when 
the air filtration generators will cover the sound of Hunt's 
break in and the rotating guards make the building vulnerable to 
our break in from below.

Cut to ATRIUM.

HUNT extends the arm of the device. He gets a notice from 
STICKELL.

STICKELL(VO)
Ethan, the generators are about to go active.




Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
Just a friendly reminder we'll be out of contact for the eight 
minutes.

STICKELL starts a timer.

We see a shot of the generators going active.

Cut to ATRIUM.

HUNT presses a button on the device and a laser begins to cut the 
glass in a shape circle. HUNT places a handle and removes the 
device. He lifts the glass and jumps in.

INT. LAB - NIGHT

We see HUNT enter the lab. He looks around.

Cut to AMBROSE.

AMBROSE
I'm betting Hunt will destroy Chimera rather than intend to 
preserve any part of it. He'll have to do it in two places. The 
incubation room, where the growth vials are kept.

We see HUNT walk to the vials. HUNT turns to see the injection 
guns in another room.

AMBROSE(VO)
And finally, in the inoculation chamber holding the last Chimera 
virus in three injection guns.

Cut to AMBROSE.

AMBROSE
He won't be allowed to destroy the virus in those guns.

Cut to LAB.

HUNT begins to walk to the vials. STICKELL is tracking him on the 
computer.

INT. LOBBY - NIGHT

AMBROSE and his men enter the lobby.

RECEPTIONIST
What's this? You're on time for once?

STAMP
Not exactly, sport!

The RECEPTIONIST is shot and killed.

INT. LAB - NIGHT

HUNT puts on a gas mask. He plays back McCLOY's voice to a 
reader. The door opens. HUNT enters.

INT. LOBBY - NIGHT

We see a reflection of AMBROSE and STAMP of the lobby floor 
walking the same time.

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL notices the yellow dot, it's NYAH. He contacts BAIRD.

STICKELL
Billy, I think we have a problem! Nyah's on the wing, up early. 
Billy, do you copy?

Cut to CHOPPER.

BAIRD
Yeah, I gotcha, Luther! Say exactly where is she?

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
In the building!

Cut to CHOPPER.

BAIRD
Say again, mate! Sounds like you'd said she's in the building?

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
I am, she is!

BAIRD(VO)
Well, then. She's not likely to be alone then, is she?

STICKELL
She's in the elevators heading towards Ethan. The question is how 
many of them. I can't get through to Ethan, not till the 
generators go off.

Cut to CHOPPER.

BAIRD
When's that?



Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
Not for another five and a half minutes.

We see HUNT in the incubation room. He walks to the vials and 
looks at them. There is a keyboard and screens on either side of 
him. HUNT begins to type. Lasers begin to appear from three guns 
above the vials. The virus starts to burn up.

COMPUTER
Chimera in vitro pH and temperature levels outside optimal range 
(repeats). Chimera Working seep stop pH at critical level. Alert, 
Chimera stop life threatened. Alert, Chimera stop life 
terminated.

All the charts on the virus begin to go up and the virus is dead 
in the vials. The screen displays a notice saying it is dead.

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL watches the computer screen.

STICKELL
Come on, Ethan! Come on!

Cut to INCUBATION ROOM.

HUNT places a packet of C4 with a remote detonator attached. He 
sets the bomb. We get another shot of the floor reflection of 
AMBROSE and STAMP. We see HUNT enter a small cleaning area 
between rooms.

COMPUTER
Subject is contaminant free. Zero contaminant factor.

HUNT exits the area and enter the inoculation room. He takes of 
his gas mask. He sees the injection guns ahead of him and walks 
to them.

Cut to CHOPPER.

BAIRD
Come on! Come on!

Cut to STICKELL.

On STICKELL's computer screen, we see that the dots get closer 
and closer.

BAIRD(VO)
What the hell can we do?

STICKELL
What can we do! Hope he kills all the bugs before the yellow dot 
gets to the red one.

Cut to INOCULATION ROOM.

HUNT walks to the injection guns. He puts his arms into the 
gloves. He picks up one injection gun, puts on what looks like 
some sort of silencer, pulls the trigger and the virus is 
destroyed. He does it to the second gun. When he is about to do 
the third one, he gets thoughts of NEKHORVICH injecting himself. 
Suddenly guards enter as well as AMBROSE, and begin to fire 
bullets at HUNT. He falls, so does the injection gun. He sees it 
and tries for it but the glass falls from under the gun and it 
falls to the ground.

AMBROSE
Get him!

The guards go after him, more gun fights continue. HUNT slides 
down a series of cables. One of the guards picks up the injection 
gun. HUNT swings around, pulls out a gun and fires at the guard. 
The guard falls and drops the injection gun. HUNT hides behind 
some tanks. More guards fire. HUNT spins around while crouching 
and begins firing at the guards. He hides behind more tanks.

Cut to CHOPPER.

BAIRD
How much longer before you can reach him?

Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL
We got twenty nine seconds before the generators turn off and 
Ethan will be back on line.

Outside the van, we see a mysterious character place a bomb under 
the van. STICKELL sees the reflection of the numbers counting 
down from the water in the gutter.

STICKELL
Ohhh!

STICKELL quickly grabs a laptop.

Cut to LAB.

More guards come into the lab. HUNT dives and slides to the other 
side of the room and fires at the same time, the guards fall and 
die.



Cut to STICKELL.

STICKELL disconnects all the cables to the laptop. He tries to 
escape, but his jacket is caught on some loose wire. He finally 
gets loose and opens the van door. The van explodes.

Cut to CHOPPER.

BAIRD
Luther! Luther!

We see the van inflames and we then get a shot of the generators 
stopping. 

Cut to LAB.

More gun fights erupt. HUNT comes out from hiding and begins 
firing and moving forward. AMBROSE comes out and fires back. HUNT 
kills more guards. He sees the injection gun. He goes for it, but 
misses and hides behind a structure. The guards continue to fire.

AMBROSE
Hold your fire! Hold your fire, damn it!

HUNT reloads his gun, he sees the injection gun on the ground.

AMBROSE
Well, Hunt. How've you been?

HUNT
Fighting a bit of a cold.

AMBROSE
Oh! (laughs) You know, that was the hardest part of wanting to 
portray you. You're running like an idiot every fifthteen 
minutes.

HUNT reloads another gun.

HUNT
I thought the hardest part was curing that oppressed need of 
yours to get your gun off. You were in such a hurry to knock off 
that seven four seven, you never figured out what Chimera really 
was.

AMBROSE
I knew what it was!

HUNT
Ohh! Then you knew the only way that Nekhorvich could smuggle the 
live virus was by injecting himself. Using his own bloodstream as 
a Petrie dish, you knew that while you were knocking him off, 
destroyed the very thing you came for.

HUNT comes out and fires and hides back again. The guards fire 
back. The bullets from the guns make the injection gun move.

AMBROSE
STOP! Put a sock in it! And the bloody gun, you'll spread the 
virus all over the place.

HUNT
There it is, guys! The last of it! What's the top bid?

AMBROSE
Why? Can you make me a better offer?

HUNT
Thirty-seven million pounds? Not really!

AMBROSE
Oh! Somebody has been slipping you our mail. Come out here you 
bad girl.

NYAH comes out. AMBROSE points his gun at her. HUNT sees her via 
a mirror.

HUNT
Sean, she doesn't belong here! Let her go!

AMBROSE
She wouldn't be here if it wasn't for you, Hunt.

AMBROSE tells NYAN to move. He still has his gun pointing at her.

AMBROSE
From this moment, you are responsible for what happens to her. 
And if you're looking out for her well being, I suggest you 
advise her to pick up the injection gun and bring it to me. 
Ball's in your court, Hunt.

Cut to STREET.

From the burning van, we see STICKELL come from his hiding spot. 
He is coughing and parts of his clothes are burnt.

Cut to LAB.

STICKELL(VO)
Nyah's in the building. Do you copy?

HUNT
Thank you!

HUNT turns to see NYAH standing in front of the injection gun.

HUNT
How do you know he won't shoot you the minutes hes got it?

AMBROSE
I can't hold Nyah responsible for her actions, you know women 
make. Like monkeys they are, won't let go of the last branch till 
they get a grip on the next.

NYAH turns.

AMBROSE
Get it Nyah. I'll cover you.

NYAH looks at HUNT and then the injection gun. She slowly picks 
it up.

AMBROSE
I am waiting!

HUNT cocks the hammer on his gun.

NYAH
Things haven't exactly worked out the way they thought they 
would, Ethan.

HUNT shakes his head.

NYAH
Sorry!

NYAH gets the injection gun, points it to her arm and pulls the 
trigger. HUNT and AMBROSE are shocked. She drops the empty 
injection gun.

AMBROSE
Bitch!

HUNT starts a count down on his watch.

NYAH
Your not gonna shoot me Sean. Not this bitch, because she's worth 
thirty-seven million pounds.

HUNT pulls out a small remote. He presses it and pushes NYAH out 
of the way. The incubation room explodes. Security systems and 
alarms go off. More guards enter the room. Another gun fight 
starts. HUNT and NYAH hide behind some tanks.

HUNT
What were you think you were doing?

NYAH
I wasn't thinking. Just trying to stop you from getting hurt, 
that's all.

HUNT
You who don't have a conscience.

NYAH
I guessed I lied!

Guards come and HUNT shoots them down. AMBROSE and his men are 
also killing the excess guards.

NYAH
You can't get us both out of here?

HUNT shakes his head. NYAH brings HUNT's hand with the gun and 
points it to her chest.

NYAH
I'm infected with Chimera. You know you don't have a choice. Do 
it! Do it, now!

HUNT pulls his gun back and rips a bomb from his pack and throws 
it to a wall.

HUNT
We've got nineteen hours and fifty eight minutes. I'll get 
Belairiform into your system before them.

HUNT shoots the bomb. The wall explodes.

HUNT
Just stay alive. I'm not going to lose you.

HUNT runs and kills more guards. He jumps out of the hole male in 
the wall. AMBROSE and STAMP go after him. HUNT does a double 
somersault in the air and releases the parachute. AMBROSE checks 
the wall and can't see HUNT. He walks back and gives an angry 
look to NYAH.

EXT. DARLING HARBOUR - DAY

We see two cars drive and stop. There are lots of people walking 
around.

INT. FIRST CAR - DAY

AMBROSE turns to NYAH and shows the Belairiform in a metallic 
canister.

AMBROSE
Fell like pleading for your life?

NYAH slaps AMBROSE on the face.

AMBROSE
Well then, how about dying, so you cake me a lot of money.

AMBROSE exits the car and turns back. He talks to NYAH through 
the window.

AMBROSE
In just a few hours time, you can be assured of going down in 
history as a typhoid miliaria of Oz. G'day.

AMBROSE leaves.

EXT. BEACH & ROCKY AREA - DAY

STICKELL, HUNT and BAIRD walk to the helicopter. BAIRD gives HUNT 
a gun and loads it.

STICKELL
There's not a chance in locating Nyah, until I can access the 
satellite. And there's not a chance in doing that until I get 
this computer fixed and that's taking a while. How much time does 
she have left?

HUNT
Not long. But whatever happens, Nyah will take care of Nyah.

BAIRD
What do you mean?

HUNT
If we don't get the Belairiform. Nyah will kill herself. So, 
first things first.

They pack their gear into the helicopter.

INT. ROOM - BIOCYTE ISLAND BASE - DAY

We see McCLOY walk around the room impatiently.

EXT. STREET - DAY

We see AMBROSE and several others in three cars heading to the 
island base. We pan around to see HUNT climbing a rock face.

Cut to STICKELL and BAIRD.

STICKELL and BAIRD are sitting in the helicopter. The two look 
from afar with binoculars and other gear.

EXT. BASE - DAY

We see the cars enter the island base.

Cut to STICKELL and BAIRD.

BAIRD
Ethan, Ambrose and his tam have arrived over the bridge and...



Cut to HUNT

BAIRD(VO)
...Nyah's not with him, mate!

HUNT
Copy that!

HUNT continues climbing. HUNT makes it to the top and peeps over 
the top.

BAIRD(VO)
You alright, mate? Looks like pretty heavy security from here. 
What's it look like from there? 

HUNT sees a guard walk by.

HUNT
Risky!

HUNT gets up and runs up behind a guard. He does some martial 
arts moves on the guard, and in doing so, killing him. HUNT rolls 
the guard into the water.

INT. ROOM - BASE - DAY

AMBROSE and his men enter the room. McCLOY turns around. WALLIS 
sets up a laptop.

EXT. BASE - DAY

HUNT runs, and does a dive roll. He opens a grate, gets in and 
closes it. The guard turns around.

INT. ROOM - DAY

AMBROSE places the Belairiform and a blood sample canisters on a 
table. A SCIENTIST picks up the canisters.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

We see a guard walk through the hallway. The camera pans up to 
see HUNT. HUNT drops, spins the guard with his legs and hits the 
guard in the chest. Pigeons begin to flap. HUNT drags the body.

INT. ROOM ENTRANCE - DAY

One of the guards is trying to contact another.

GUARD
Simon! Simon!

We see HUNT drag the body into a separate room.

GUARD
Stay here!

The GUARD walks off and looks for him.

INT. ROOM - DAY

The SCIENTIST opens the canisters and inserts them into a machine 
with a microscope. The SCIENTIST verifies both with a computer.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

HUNT contacts STICKELL via his ear piece.

HUNT
Breaching structure, ten O'clock reading. 

HUNT continues going forward.

INT ROOM - DAY

The computer beeps.

SCIENTIST
It's a DNA match. The blood's loaded with Chimera.

The SCIENTIST looks through the scope and sees small amounts of 
Belairiform and the blood sample mixing. The computer beeps 
again.

SCIENTIST
And they certainly have Belairiform.

McCLOY
Well then, you've got the virus and the anti-virus, which means 
I've got thirty million for you.

AMBROSE
Not exactly! We don't want just your cash.

McCLOY
What do you want?

AMBROSE
Stock, Mr. McCloy. Stock options to be a little more precise.

AMBROSE sits down in a chair and makes a call on his mobile.

AMBROSE
Cut her loose, right in the centre of town. The more crowd, the 
better.

WALLIS smiles.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

HUNT continues through the base.

STICKELL(VO)
Ethan, just picked up an Ambrose call. Nyah's been dropped off. I 
think she still alive.

HUNT
Where is she?

STICKELL(VO)
Somewhere in Sydney.

HUNT sees a guard and hides in a cell. The guard goes by the cell 
entrance and HUNT kicks the guard into the wall. He does more 
moves and kills the guard.

HUNT
Somewhere is Sydney? Gotta hardened target?

STICKELL(VO)
I can't until I get the GPS up on our computer. It's still down.

HUNT
The clock is ticking.

HUNT continues on.

INT. ROOM - BASE - DAY

AMBROSE
How quickly can you manufacture more of the anti- virus?

McCLOY
No time at all! Since I got it!

AMBROSE
Good! BioCyte stock is just a few weeks away from going through 
the roof!

McCLOY
What are you talking about?

AMBROSE
An outbreak of Chimera.

McCLOY
Where?

AMBROSE
Down town Sydney, for a start. You create the supply, McCloy, 
we've just created the demand. Three million people in Sydney and 
seventeen million people in Australia are going to need 
Belairiform within the next few days. Not to mention the rest of 
the world. Now, this is how it's going to work. Wallis, shares 
are standing are... 

WALLIS
Ninety three point four million.

AMBROSE
Which means, Mr. McCLOY, we need to get our hands on 480,000 
options. We'll borrow your thirty million to buy those options. 
Your stock has never sold above thirty-one dollars a share. When 
your stock goes north over two hundred, which it will, those 
options will be worth billions and I will own fifty one percent 
of BioCyte.

McCLOY
This is outrageous. I will not let you take control of my 
company. 

AMBROSE
Sit down!

McCLOY sits down.

INT. HALLWAY - BASE - DAY

HUNT walks to the ROOM ENTRANCE. Birds fly out which catches a 
guard's attention. HUNT hides. The guard investigates. HUNT comes 
out, running. When he gets closer to the guard, he does a 
somersault kick, which knocks the guard down. He sees the 
entrance. HUNT puts tape over the guard's mouth.

INT. ROOM - BASE - DAY

AMBROSE
You'll be a billionaire. It's better than being broke. And I have 
terrorists and other pharmaceutical companies waiting in line.

INT. ROOM ENTRANCE - BASE - DAY

HUNT walks slowly to the door. He stays a few feet away.

INT. ROOM - BASE - DAY

AMBROSE
The ball's in your court, Mr. McCloy!

INT. ROOM ENTRANCE - BASE - DAY

HUNT pulls out a metallic tube from his pack and throws it to the 
door.

Cut to ROOM.

STAMP sends two men to check it out.




Cut to ROOM ENTRANCE.

HUNT pulls out a gun and is aimed at the tube. He sees the door 
open and fires two bullets the tube explodes five feet into the 
room. HUNT holsters his gun. AMBROSE sees HUNT walk by the room 
entrance.

AMBROSE
Run that bastard down!

STAMP goes after him. AMBROSE pulls out his gun and scraps it 
along the table.

AMBROSE
We're running out of time, Mr. McCloy! We've go to conclude our 
business.

AMBROSE cocks the hammer of his gun.

McCLOY
Yes!(to associate) Start the transfer.

The associate begins the transfer.

AMBROSE
Follow him and let me know!

WALLIS nods. The SCIENTIST replaces the canisters and places them 
on the table.

Cut to STICKELL and BAIRD.

STICKELL is still trying to access the GPS, but the computer 
continues to fail.

Cut to HALLWAY.

STAMP and others are searching for HUNT. They go past. HUNT is 
hiding above the cell entry with a bird. The bird makes a noise. 
STAMP turns back and investigates. HUNT attacks STAMP. STAMP 
points his gun at HUNT.

STAMP
Raise your hands slowly!

HUNT
Sure you want me to do this?

HUNT slowly pulls out a grenade.

STAMP
Raise your hands! Very slowly.

HUNT pulls the pin out of the grenade. The two rise slowly. HUNT 
shows the grenade, flicks the leaver and throws it between 
STAMP's legs. The two begin to fight with each other. The grenade 
goes off, destroying part of the base.

Cut to STICKELL and BAIRD.

STICKELL
Ethan. Ethan, do you copy?

Cut to ROOM.

AMBROSE
Keep it going!

The associate continues the transfer. AMBROSE gets a message from 
STAMP on a radio.

STAMP(VO)
Sean, this rat has reached the end of the maze.

AMBROSE
Is he alive?

STAMP
Yep! More or less!

AMBROSE
Bring him to me!

Cut to STICKELL and BAIRD.

STICKELL
Go!

BAIRD starts the chopper up.

INT. ROOM - BASE - DAY

Th screen shows the words "COMPLETE". The associate looks calm. 
WALLIS gets up.

WALLIS
Sean, transfer completed!

AMBROSE sees STAMP bring in HUNT, who is tied up.

AMBROSE
Well done, Stamp. Well done!

AMBROSE kicks HUNT. He falls to the ground. AMBROSE shoots his 
leg and presses on it. HUNT mumbles continuously.

AMBROSE
Stop mumbling! 

STAMP
I'm afraid he has no choice. I believe I broke his jaw.

AMBROSE
Stamp, I'm impressed. (to HUNT) Right, we don't have a lot of 
time so whatever you got to say, say it now! How about a big 
smile?

HUNT continues to mumble.

AMBROSE
No?!

McCLOY
What are you doing?

AMBROSE points his gun at McCLOY.

AMBROSE
Get down on your knees!

McCLOY gets down.

AMBROSE
Now, this is what is known as "getting your gun off".

AMBROSE points his gun and fires a whole magazine at HUNT. He 
falls and dies. AMBROSE suddenly sees that HUNT has a bandage on 
his finger. AMBROSE slowly goes to the dead body. He rips off the 
face to reveal the REAL STAMP.

AMBROSE
Huuuuuuuunnnnt!!!!

We see the FAKE STAMP run off with both canisters. He places them 
in his jacket.

Cut to ROOM.

AMBROSE turns to see that the canisters are gone.

Cut to HALLWAY.

We see the FAKE STAMP rips off his mask to reveal HUNT. He rips 
it off while running.

EXT. BASE - DAY

We see HUNT exit to the top of the base. BAIRD is flies in close 
to the island.

BAIRD
There he is!

HUNT runs for the helicopter, STICKELL put his arm out. The two 
are unable to reach. Suddenly a guard comes out firing.

BAIRD
Ethan!

STICKELL gets back into the chopper. HUNT pulls out a gun, turns 
and fires at waste tanks. They explode and the guard dies. The 
chopper backs off.

HUNT
Just back off and pin point our positions.

The chopper leaves. Another guard comes and begins firing. HUNT 
runs and does a side ways flip while firing. He kills the guard. 
A motorcycle comes towards HUNT. He gets out of the way, turns 
around and fires, killing the rider. The rider falls. Another 
cycle comes towards him. The bike jumps over him. HUNT falls back 
wards and fires. The rider falls off the bike in mid-air and 
dies. HUNT reloads his gun and gets on one of the bikes. AMBROSE 
and some of the guards enter into their cars. We see HUNT and the 
chopper fly next to him.

HUNT
Luther, clear the bridge for me!

The chopper pulls back.

Cut to AMBROSE.

We see AMBROSE's men enter the cars. He talks on a radio.

AMBROSE
Hunt's headed for the bridge, coming in a twelve o'clock, hide!

The helicopter heads towards the bridge. A car comes by and 
begins to fire at the chopper.

STICKELL
Oh! I'm mad now!

STICKELL loads a grenade launcher and fires. The car is still 
moving and partially on fire. HUNT rides the bike over a concrete 
structure. The same car fires back. HUNT jumps and lands on the 
bridge. STICKELL fires another grenade and the car explodes. HUNT 
rides through the flames. The wreck falls into the water. BAIRD 
laughs. The chopper leaves. HUNT rides on. AMBROSE's convoy 
crashes through the gates. AMBROSE rides on the other bike. A car 
is on the road, the chopper flies beside it. STICKELL aims his 
rifle. The driver shoots. STICKELL falls back. The chopper falls 
back.

BAIRD
Are you alright, mate?

STICKELL
That punk put a hole in my Versaci.

HUNT pulls out a gun. A guy sticks out of a car with a gun. HUNT 
fires first, the guy fires back. HUNT hits the guy and he gets 
back into the car. HUNT shoots the tyre. The driver loses 
control. HUNT does a front wheel wheelie in front of the car. 
HUNT swings round and fires at the car. The car explodes. HUNT 
sees a four wheel drive and rides off. AMBROSE follows him. HUNT 
is now pursued by the 4WD on a suburban street.

Cut to CHOPPER.

STICKELL'S computer finally gets working and sees NYAH on the 
map.

STICKELL
Ethan, the computer's up. I've got Nyah, she's moved out of the 
city. She's on the north head block, approaching the cliffs, but 
I can't get a visual.

Cut to HUNT.

HUNT
Help me! She's only got a little time left. Track ahead and pick 
her up.

A car suddenly joins the pursuit. They try to fire. HUNT weaves 
between the bullets.

SHOOTER
I can't get a good shot!

Cut to CHOPPER.

STICKELL
We won't be able to cover you!

Cut to HUNT.

HUNT
My earpiece is failing. You got me on GPS. Bring her to me.

HUNT takes out and throws away the earpiece. The 4WD suddenly 
goes off road into the bush area.

Cut to CHOPPER.

STICKELL
Billy, north head block. Haul ass!

The chopper changes direction.

Cut to CLIFFS.

NYAH stumbles her way to the cliffs.

Cut to BIKE CHASE.

The shooters come out again. HUNT sees a semi trailer ahead. He 
burns the back wheel, making smoke. The smoke gets in the car's 
way.

WALLIS
God damn it! Keep firing!

SHOOTER
I can't see anything!

HUNT stops burning the wheel and rides on. The car comes out of 
the smoke and the semi-trailer crashes the car and explodes. The 
semi trailer drives on. The 4WD comes back onto the road. The 4WD 
follows HUNT. The 4WD rams him from behind. HUNT turns and slides 
the bike, pulls out a gun and fires at the 4WD. The 4WD loses 
control and crashes into some parked cars and explodes. 

AMBROSE is on the other bike and he rides towards HUNT and begins 
firing. HUNT gets off the bike and rides along side it. AMBROSE 
rides by and fires at the same time. HUNT gets back onto the 
bike. AMBROSE turns around and begins chasing him. HUNT weaves 
around moving cars, in and out. AMBROSE fires, only getting the 
rear light. HUNT sees AMBROSE in his mirror and fires behind him. 
HUNT weaves more. AMBROSE replies with gunfire. They continue to 
weave. HUNT does a skid turn and continues to ride.

Cut to CHOPPER.

The chopper is in the city. The computer screen comes up with 
NYAH's location.

STICKELL
Range is two kay.

Cut to CLIFFS.

NYAH walks closer and closer to the cliffs. She stands only a 
foot away from the edge.

Cut to BIKE CHASE.

AMBROSE fires again, HUNT goes through a bush. AMBROSE fires and 
hits HUNT's petrol tank and begins leaking. HUNT loses control 
and slides into a rusting old car. HUNT gets the bike back up and 
continues riding. AMBROSE follows him. The two ride into a 
secluded beachy area. AMBROSE rides over HUNT. HUNT slides the 
bike and AMBROSE lands. The two turn their bikes and face each 
other. The two accelerate their bikes and both do wheelies. 
HUNT's tank continues t leak. The two jump off their bikes in 
mid-air, catch each other and fall to the ground. The bikes 
explode. The two fall to a lower part of the beachy area. a gun 
comes loose and drops into the sand. The waves crash.

Cut to LOWER BEACHY AREA. 

AMBROSE slowly gets up but HUNT kicks him down. AMBROSE sees a 
gun and goes for it but HUNT kicks it away and kicks him in the 
head. The two continue to fight, using martial arts and plain old 
street fighting.

Cut to CLIFFS.

NYAH is still close to the edge of the cliff. She closes her eyes 
and breathes slowly.

Cut to BEACHY AREA.

HUNT looks as if he is losing the fight. But comes back and 
tackles AMBROSE to the ground. They continue to fight. AMBROSE 
pulls out a knife and slashes HUNT's face. AMBROSE then slashes 
HUNT's back and kicks him to the ground. AMBROSE goes in with 
knife and misses HUNT's eye by a few millimetres. HUNT knocks the 
knife and rolls away. He gets up with the knife. AMBROSE also 
stands up.

AMBROSE
Go ahead! Use it, Hunt! Not a bad way to go. It's a lot better 
than that bitch is going to die! 

The shot intercuts between HUNT and NYAH at the cliffs and when 
she injected herself. The shot cuts back to HUNT.

HUNT throws the knife between AMBROSE's feet and continues the 
fight. HUNT does some impressive kicks. More waves crash.

Cut to NORTH HEAD.

The chopper flies over the North Head, above the cliffs.

BAIRD
Hey! There she is!

NYAH is about to jump the cliff. She hears and sees the chopper I 
the air. The chopper lands on the cliff.

Cut to BEACHY AREA.

AMBROSE picks up a gun but HUNT knocks him down. HUNT does more 
impressive kicks.

Cut to CHOPPER.

The chopper heads its way to the beachy area.

Cut to BEACHY AREA.

HUNT does some more impressive kicks and AMBROSE falls to the 
ground. Waves crash. HUNT gets up. He goes up to AMBROSE and 
thinks about finishing him off, but doesn't. the chopper lands. 
HUNT grabs the canisters from the jacket. STICKELL exits the 
chopper. HUNT walks up to STICKELL. The two stop feet away. 
STICKELL looks worried. AMBROSE has a gun and seems to want to go 
on with the fight.

AMBROSE
Hunt! (laughs) You should've killed me!

HUNT notices a gun in the sand. He passes the Belairiform 
canister to STICKELL, kicks the gun, the gun jumps, he catches 
it, and turns. AMBROSE fires but misses. HUNT falls to the ground 
and fires off the gun. AMBROSE dies. STICKELL injects the 
Belairiform into NYAH. HUNT walks to the chopper and looks at 
NYAH.

INT. MUSEUM - DAY

HUNT and SWANBECK are in a room with the wall covered in artwork.

SWANBECK
Miss Hall's blood it appears, has absolutely no elements of the 
Chimera virus, not even antibodies. 

HUNT
I gathered as much.

SWANBECK
But you were under specific instructions, Mr. Hunt, to bring back 
a living sample of the Chimera virus. I'll be very interested to 
know how, after you managed it's recovery, it subsequently got 
destroyed.

HUNT
By fire. It's the best way, really!

SWANBECK
Ohhh! Well Mr. Hunt, as for Miss Hall and enlight of her efforts, 
her criminal record will be expunged, wiped out. I'm assuming you 
approve?

HUNT
I do.

SWANBECK
Where is she now by the way? Any ideas?

HUNT
I don't know. Not exactly.

EXT. PARK - DAY

We see kids playing and adults just talking in the park with 
others.

SWANBECK(VO)
So, what are your plans?

HUNT(VO)
I don't know. Some sought of vacation. I'll let you know where 
I'm going.

SWANBECK(VO)
Don't have to do that, it wouldn't be a vacation if you did. 

NYAH and HUNT see each other in the park. They walk to each other 
and kiss.

HUNT
Let's get lost.

HUNT and NYAH walk through the park. The camera pans back to see 
the park, the harbour bridge and the opera house.

FADE OUT:

END CREDITS

-FACTS-
1- The Biocyte building is actually a normal office block. The 
louvres don't exist, neither does the atrium. It's all blue 
screen work. Sorry to disappoint you!

2- The island base where STAMP dies, is actually a good fishing 
spot if you happen to live around the area.

3- G'day is actually short of 'Good Day'. It's an Australian 
term.
