

                             Only You
                                 
                            Screenplay
                                 
                                by
                                 
                            Diane Drake
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                                 
SUPER: 1968

On a darkened living room, a huge summer moon spilling silver
through a window.

We move slowly across the mantelpiece where a pair of candles
glow, illuminating family photos.  Weddings two, maybe three
generations back -- brides in white, their young grooms at
their sides, frozen in time.  As we pan, we hear two VOICES
offscreen: a BOY'S and a GIRL'S.

                           GIRL'S VOICE (O.S.)
               Stop pushing it.  You're not
               supposed to force it.  You're
               supposed to just let it happen.

                           BOY'S VOICE (O.S.)
               I'm not pushing it, you're pushing
               it.

                           GIRL'S VOICE (O.S.)
               I am not.

Silence.  Until,

                           GIRL'S VOICE (O.S.)
               You're pushing it again.

An exasperated sigh.

                           BOY'S VOICE (O.S.)
               Well, hurry up.  My foot's falling
               asleep.

                           GIRL'S VOICE (O.S.)
               Mo-mmm.  Larry's pushing it.

Mom?

                           MOM (O.S.)
                     (from the next
                      room)
               Larry, don't push it.

And now, we finally pan over to discover two KIDS playing with
a Ouija board.  For future reference, the players are FAITH
(age eleven), and her brother LARRY (ten).

                           LARRY
               I'M NOT PUSHING IT.

                           FAITH
               Wait.  I have to write this down.

A groan out of him.  She grabs a piece of paper and starts
scrawling out a series of letters.

                           FAITH
               Grandma told me everybody has a
               soul mate.

                           FAITH
               But most people never find theirs,
               most people settle.  I'm never
               gonna settle.

She gazes up as the ripe summer moon slips behind a bank of
clouds.

                           FAITH
               This way I'll know the name of the
               man I'm supposed to wait for.

The arrow continues to move around the board, stopping on
various letters which she copies down.

                           LARRY
               Yeah, but, what if this guy lived
               a billion, trillion years ago?
               Like, what if he was a cave man,
               and now he's dead?

                           FAITH
               Don't be stupid, Larry.  If he's
               my destiny, then, obviously, he
               has to be alive.

Another letter.

                           LARRY
               Yeah, but, what if he doesn't live
               here?  Like, what if he's a
               cannibal in New Guinea or
               something?

                           FAITH
               If I live here, then he lives here.
               Fate wouldn't make a mistake like
               that.
                     (beat)
               And stop talking.  You're gonna
               ruin the spell.

Another pause.  Another letter.  Then...  Ever the devil's
advocate,

                           LARRY
                     (whispering)
               Yeah, but... but, Faith, what if
               he does live here, and one day you
               just walk past him on the street?
               I mean, you don't hear his name,
               you don't get a chance to introduce
               yourselves.  You practically bump
               straight into each other, but you
               never even know it?

Right in his face,

                           FAITH
               We'll KNOW.

                           LARRY
               Okaaaaayyyy.

The arrow comes slowly to a halt.  And she writes down the
final letter, as the moon again breaks through the clouds,
throwing a bright white beam of light directly onto the name
which reads:

                           FAITH (O.S.)
                     (a whisper)
               Damon Bradley.
                     (she looks up,
                      spellbound)
               He's the one.

Beat.

                           LARRY
               Goodie.  Can I ask about the Series
               now?

                                             CUT TO:

EXT. CARNIVAL - NIGHT

A screaming face.  Whirling lights.  A local carnival.  The
small-town traveling kind.

SUPER:  THREE YEARS LATER.

Up on the ferris wheel, a bunch of JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL BOYS
are distinguishing themselves by hurling water balloons down
at carnival-goers.  Among the participants is Faith's brother
Larry.

PULL DOWN from them to "MADAME DIVINA'S FORTUNE TELLING
BOOTH". "Know Your Fate".  Clustered in front of it are a
bunch of JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL GIRLS.

We should recognize Faith as one of them.  Another girl,
LESLIE, is egging a friend on.

                           LESLIE
               Go on, go on...
                     (to the rest)
               She wants to know if she's gonna
               marry Alex.

                           GIRL #2
               I do not.  I'm not gonna marry
               Alex.
                     (obviously)
               He doesn't even have a car.

                           LESLIE
               But he's got pretty eyes.  That
               means your kids would have pretty
               eyes.  You can always get a car
               later, but you can't always find
               pretty eyes.  You gotta think
               ahead.

                           GIRL #3
               Who cares about pretty eyes,
               Leslie?  I'm telling you, stocks,
               bonds, real estate -- that's what
               you wanna look for in a man.

                           GIRL #4
                     (dismissing)
               Heh...

                           GIRL #3
               What then?

                           GIRL #4
                     (the voice of
                      authority)
               Definitely sex.

Somebody else pipes up,

                           GIRL #5
               My mom told me you gotta want the
               same things out of life.  Have the
               same values, be able to
               communicate.

They all turn to look blankly at this poor, misguided soul.

                           GIRL #5
               I'm just telling you what she said.

They're still looking at her.

                           GIRL #5
               It's not like I believed her or
               anything...

                           FAITH
               I think you're all wrong.

                           LESLIE
               What do you think the most
               important thing is, Faith?

There is not a doubt in her mind.

                           FAITH
               True love.  I believe there's one
               special person out there who's
               meant for each of us.  And when
               your eyes meet, it'll be magic and
               you'll both know it instantly.

A couple of dissenters roll their eyes.

                           FAITH
                     (turning to another
                      friend)
               Don't you think so, Kate?

KATE's looking at the ground, trying to sound casual.

                           KATE
               I don't know, I guess I never
               really thought about it...
                     (in her next
                      breath)
               Is Larry here?

                           FAITH
                     (she couldn't care
                      less)
               Yeah.  He's around somewhere.

Up above, Larry takes careful aim, then sends a water balloon
torpedoing their way.  It hits the ground between them with
an enormous SPLAT.  They SCREAM.

INT. FORTUNE TELLING BOOTH - NIGHT

We move past them, through a beaded window and into the booth
where a disheveled older WOMAN, MADAME DIVINA, is paging
through a copy of "Scientific American".

There's a TAP at the door.  She checks her watch.  Curses.
She shoves the magazine in a drawer, then hoists a bowling
ball, the kind with the iridescent swirls in them, onto an
opening in the center of the table, carefully positioning it
so the three holes aren't visible.  She flicks on a flashlight
above it.  Crystal ball.

Back outside, the girl everybody-thinks-is-going-to-marry-Alex
is nervous.

                           GIRL #2
               But what if she tells me something
               bad?  I don't want to hear anything
               bad...

                           KATE
               They never tell you anything bad.
               Nobody'd ever go to them if they
               did.

The door opens.  The WOMAN'S imposing hulk casts a shadow down
over them.  They look up.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
               Who knocked?

Like deer in the headlights.

                           GIRL #2
                     (pointing at Kate)
               She did.

                           KATE
                     (pointing at girl
                      #2)
               She did.

Nobody moves, until,

                           FAITH (O.S.)
               I did.

Faith looks at her friends, shrugs, then gamely ventures
inside past the beads and sits down.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
               What's your name?

                           FAITH
               Faith.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
                     (lighting a candle)
               What do you wanna know, Faith?

                           FAITH
               Um, just basic destiny stuff, I
               guess.  But-- I don't want to hear
               anything bad.
                     (beat)
               If that's okay.

Madame Divina starts laying out a series of tarot cards.
Suddenly there's a loud KNOCK at the back door.  Faith jumps.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
                     (dismissing)
               Spirits.

She lays down a couple more cards.  Then a persistent
"PSSSSTTTT", "PSSSSTTT".  More BANGING.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
                     (hollering)
               Harry, I'm outta change.

More KNOCKING.  Harry is determined.  Annoyed, Mme.  Divina
finally gets up.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
               How come I always wind up next door
               to the freak show?
                     (as she goes)
               Just because they're midgets does
               that mean they don't have to go
               to the bank like the rest of us?

She lumbers to the back of the booth, throws open a back door
and looks down.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
               What?

Inside, Faith is nervously eying the cards.  Her friend KATE
peeks in through the beads.

                           KATE
                     (mouthing the words
                      and pointing)
               Is that a bowling ball?

Faith doesn't understand.  Kate mimes a bowling motion,
swinging her arm.  Faith shrugs.  As the woman returns, from
outside we overhear,

                           BOY'S VOICE (O.S.)
               Hey, Kate.  Larry wants you.

                           LARRY (O.S.)
               I do not.

Kate grins, ducks out.  Mme. Divina sits back down.  Closes
her eyes.  Fingers the ball, entranced.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
               Something is coming to me.  I'm
               getting... a name.

Faith leans forward.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
                     (straining)
               This name is very important to
               you...  Da--  David.  No-- no...

A faint breeze flutters through the room and the candle starts
to flicker.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
               Damon.

Faith's heart skips a beat.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
               His name is...
                     (her eyes pop open
                      with startling
                      intensity)
               Damon Bradley.

It is, of course, the same name.

                           FAITH
               Omigod.  Omigod.
                     (getting up)
               I have to go.

She seizes Faith's hand.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
               Just a minute--

Faith freezes.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
               Your destiny's two dollars.

Faith pulls out two bills, drops them on the table.  Bolts
for the door.  But the woman stops her again.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
               Hey--

She leans in very close and pulls Faith toward her.  We should
sense that this is not part of the act.  This is for real.

                           FORTUNE TELLER
               The truth is, no matter what the
               cards say, you make your own
               destiny.  Don't wait for it to come
               to you.  You understand?

Faith nods.  Still in shock.

                           FAITH
               Can I be excused now?

                                             CUT TO:

SUPER: TWENTY YEARS LATER -- SATURDAY NIGHT

We hear pouring rain.  But what sounds like rain is actually
the shower, as we pull back to find Mitzi Gaynor washing that
man right out of her hair.  "SOUTH PACIFIC" is on television.
We pull back even further to reveal three WOMEN watching.
A big Saturday night.  There's a lot of chocolate on the
table.

The women are:  the adult FAITH.  Attractive, a little dreamy.
The walls of her apartment are adorned with reproductions of
famous works all featuring a similar theme, Rodin's "The
Kiss", Botticelli's "Birth of Venus", etc.  Bookshelves are
crammed with volumes of poetry.  She's absentmindedly pulling
the petals off a bouquet of flowers on the table.

Also in attendance: KATE, her childhood friend turned
housewife and sister-in-law.  Kate is a pragmatist.  She's
clipping coupons out of the newspaper as they watch.  And,
doing her nails, LESLIE.  Big hair.  Good heart.  Not the
sharpest tool in the shed.

As the movie cuts to a commercial,

                           LESLIE
               I'm just saying I think it would
               be a good idea.

                           KATE
                     (dubiously)
               Date police...

                           LESLIE
               Yes.  A guy who says he's gonna
               call, then doesn't, ought to get
               slapped with a citation, that's
               all.

Faith glances at Kate.  They're used to Leslie.

                           LESLIE
                     (blowing on her
                      nails)
               Anyway, like I said, I've given
               it a lot of thought and I've
               finally narrowed it down.
                     (beat)
               A heterosexual with a job.

                           FAITH
               Well, I don't think it's asking
               too much to want to feel it in my
               head and my heart and my body and
               my soul all at the same time, and
               to have that feeling to be mutual.
               Pass the M&Ms please.

Her friends groan.  They're used to Faith.  Kate hands the
candy over.

                           LESLIE
               Not as long as you're not hoping
               to find it on planet Earth.

                           KATE
               Leslie's right, Faith.  You've got
               to start being more practical.
               Do you know what the statistics
               are, the marriage odds for women
               your age?

                           FAITH
               I don't believe in statistics.

                           KATE
               You're an accountant for cryin'
               out loud.

Faith holds out both palms, gesturing that her point has been
made.

                           KATE
               What about that guy you work with,
               Mike what's-his-name?

                           FAITH
                     (shaking her head)
               No.  He smokes.

                           KATE
               How about the other one?  His
               friend.

                           FAITH
               Just moved in with his girlfriend.

                           KATE
                     (brightly)
               How about that guy at the bank?

Faith pops another M&M.

                           FAITH
               Scientologist.

                           KATE
                     (deflated)
               Oh.

Beat.

                           KATE
               So, you gotta be a little flexible.
               Look at your brother and me.
               Larry's not perfect, neither am
               I.  But we work it out.  We're not
               unrealistic in our expectations,
               and we have each other.
                     (setting down her
                      scissors)
               I think you've got the Door Number
               Three Syndrome.

                           FAITH
               Don't tell me, Oprah did a show--

                           LESLIE
               Yeah, I saw that.  Like on Let's
               Make A Deal.  You've got the Amana
               freezer and you can keep it, or
               risk it on what's behind Door
               Number Three.  Which usually turns
               out to be a donkey.

Faith looks at Kate.

                           FAITH
               I don't have an Amana freezer.

                           KATE
               It's a metaphor.  It's women who
               always think there's some unknown
               out there that's going to be better
               than what's in front of them.  And
               instead wind up with nothing.

                           FAITH
               Metaphorically, I still don't have
               an Amana freezer.

                           KATE
               I think if you're honest with
               yourself, you'll admit you've had
               a chance at a number of Amana
               appliances in your lifetime.

She knows there's probably some ugly truth to this.  Luckily,
the PHONE RINGS.  Faith picks it up.

                           FAITH
               Hello?  Hi, Larry.
                     (beat)
               Yeah, she's here.  Hold on.
                     (turning to Kate)
               It's your husband.

INT. LARRY'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

LARRY, Kate's husband, Faith's brother, is at the kitchen
table, munching the last crumbs out of a bag of potato chips
and watching television.

                           LARRY
               Kate, you're still there?  I
               thought you'd be on your way home
               by now.

INT. FAITH'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

                           KATE
               You miss me?...

INT. LARRY'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

                           LARRY
               Uh, yeah.  Sure.
                     (gazing forlornly
                      into the
                      refrigerator)
               Honey, did you forget the guys are
               coming over tonight?

                           KATE (ON PHONE)
               No, why?

                           LARRY
                     (helplessly)
               Well, there's nothing here to eat.

INT. FAITH'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Over the movie, we hear yelling -- Kate's half of the fight
-- in the background.  Then the SLAMMING of the receiver.

When she comes back into the room, the "Some Enchanted
Evening" number is on.  Faith is mouthing the words.  Kate
starts picking up her coupons.

                           FAITH
               Is everything okay?

                           KATE
               Yes.
                     (glancing at the
                      tv, annoyed)
               You know all the shrinks on Donahue
               say that all those love songs about
               some enchanted evening are just
               a cruel hoax that feeds people's
               fantasies.

                           FAITH
                     (a little
                      plaintive)
               But somebody wrote those songs.

                           KATE
               So, what's your point?

                           FAITH
               Just that they came out of
               somebody's experience is all.

                           KATE
               No, Faith.  They came out of
               somebody's imagination.

EXT. FAITH'S DOOR - NIGHT

Faith walks her friends to the door, opens it.

                           FAITH
               I wish you didn't have to go so
               early.

                           KATE
                     (still annoyed)
               Yeah, well, Larry and his friends
               are hungry.
                     (relenting)
               And I did say I'd try to pick
               something up.

                           LESLIE
               And I told Ted I'd be home later
               if he wanted to stop by.

                           FAITH
               I thought you said you thought he
               had a date.

                           LESLIE
               Well, after that.

As they talk, a slight GUY, one who might best be described
as, well, non-descript, walks by and heads into his apartment.

                           NON-DESCRIPT GUY
               How's it going?

                           FAITH
               Pretty well, Dwayne.  How about
               you?

                           DWAYNE
               Can't complain.

He closes his door.  Kate looks at Faith.  Who shakes her
head.

                           FAITH
               No.

                           KATE
               Is he married?

                           FAITH
               No.

                           KATE
               Is he gay?

                           FAITH
               I don't know.  I don't think so.

                           KATE
               So?...

                           FAITH
               So, he's not my type.
                     (beat)
               Let me walk you to the elevator.

They walk.

                           KATE
               What's he do?

                           FAITH
               I don't know, Kate.

                           KATE
               You don't have any idea?

                           FAITH
               He's a podiatrist or something.

                           KATE AND LESLIE
                     (in unison)
               He's a doctor?

                           FAITH
               Look, there's no chemistry there,
               okay?  There's no... thrill.

                           KATE
               "Thrills"?  That's what you're
               waiting for?  You know how long
               that lasts?  Besides, how do you
               know?  Have you ever been out with
               him?

                           FAITH
               No.  He's never asked me.

                           KATE
               Why don't you ask him?

                           FAITH
               Why should I ask someone out who
               I don't want to go out with in the
               first place?

                           KATE
               If you've never been out with him,
               how do you know you don't want to
               go out with him?

                           LESLIE
                     (almost more to
                      herself)
               I thought he was kinda cute...

Faith sighs.  Mercifully, the elevator doors finally open.
Kate and Leslie get in.  As the doors close,

                           KATE
               Take a chance, Faith...  None of
               us is getting any younger...

INT. FAITH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Faith re-enters her apartment.  The answering machine light
is blinking.  She plays the message back as she gets ready
for bed.

                           ANSWERING MACHINE
               Hi, honey.  It's Mom.  I just
               wanted to apologize if I upset you
               at brunch today.

To herself in the bathroom mirror,

                           FAITH
               If you upset me at brunch today?

                           ANSWERING MACHINE
                     (correcting
                      herself)
               For upsetting you at brunch today.
               Now, you know I don't think you're
               a failure.  And if you never get
               married, that's perfectly fine with
               your father and me.

Faith is applying eye cream.  She leans in closer, carefully
examining the lines around her eyes.

                           ANSWERING MACHINE
               Of course you're not a freak.
               You're right, plenty of people
               aren't married.
                     (trying to be
                      supportive)
               The guy who cuts my hair isn't
               married.  Hey...  maybe you tw--
                     (a voice in the
                      background)
               He's gay.
                     (her mother)
               Oh.  Never mind.  Anyway, if you
               want to spend the rest of your life
               alone, well, that's your choice.
               And I respect it.  I just want you
               to be happy, that's all.
                     (beat)
               Hold on, your Dad wants to say
               something.
                     (male voice)
               Good fruit salad today, Faith.
                     (Mom takes the
                      phone back)
               We'll talk to you soon, sweetie.

The machine shuts off.  Faith gets into bed.  Reaches for the
light.  Then, remembering something, gets up.

There's a daily calendar lying on her dresser.  She rips off
the top page, crumples it into a ball, drops it into the
wastebasket.

And turns out the light.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

A vast audience of PEOPLE, all clad in ridiculous get-ups.
Faith is wearing a chicken suit.  Her Mother is there, in an
octopus costume.  Kate and Larry are Siamese twins.  Leslie
is dressed as a radish.  MONTY HALL steps up to Faith.

                           MONTY HALL
               So, which one is it gonna be,
               Faith?  Will it be... Door Number
               One?...

DWAYNE, the podiatrist, peeks out from between the curtains
of Door Number One.  Waves.  The CROWD goes WILD.

                           MONTY HALL
               Door Number Two?...

The distinct BRAYING of a DONKEY can be heard emanating from
behind Door Number Two.

                           MONTY HALL
               Or Door Number Three?...

A complete mystery.  This one seems to glow.

                           ALL
                     (chanting)
               Take Dwayne!  Take Dwayne!

CAROL MERRILL is running an arm sensuously along Door Number
One.

                           FAITH
                     (nervously)
               Door Number Three?

Murmurs of dismay ripple through the crowd.  The curtains
part. To reveal a shriveled OLD CRONE, covered in cobwebs,
who bears an unsettling resemblance to Faith.  The crowd BOOS.

INT. FAITH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Faith shoots up in bed, in a cold sweat.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. FAITH'S APARTMENT - THE NEXT MORNING

Faith exits her apartment and heads down the hall, carrying
a wastebasket.  She opens the garbage chute, lifts up the
basket, but as she tilts it, her hand slips and a multitude
of crumpled little balls, all those days, go spilling out onto
the floor.  She just stares down at them, on the edge.  When,

                           O.S.
               You need some help?

She looks up.  It's Dwayne.

                           FAITH
               I do...

SLOW FADE TO BLACK.

It's on a little BRIDE AND GROOM atop a massive wedding cake,
rotating to an endless loop of "We've Only Just Begun".

                           O.S.
               Okay, it's settled.

Pull back to reveal Faith on the other side of the bakery
case.

                           FAITH
               This one, in vanilla.  He wants
               vanilla.

INT. CAR - EVENING

Kate and Larry are dressed up.  Driving through a
thunderstorm.

                           LARRY
               This is the last one before the
               wedding, right?

                           KATE
               Right.

                           LARRY
               And we didn't have to bring another
               present?

                           KATE
               No.

EXT. DWAYNE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A party.  Champagne corks POP, MUSIC plays, GUESTS circulate.
We move around the room, picking up snatches of conversation.
Dwayne is leading Faith around by the hand.  Thrusting her
ring finger into people's faces.

She's embarrassedly playing along.

                           DWAYNE
               That's right.  Six grand.  Can you
               believe what they get for these
               things?  I'm telling you, it's
               highway robbery.

He pats her ass proprietarily.

                           DWAYNE
               But she's worth it.

Her mother watches, beaming.  Other elderly RELATIVES come
up to her, offering their congratulations.

                           ELDERLY RELATIVE
                     (sotto, to her
                      mother)
               We'd almost given up hope, dear.

In another corner,

                           KATE
               Not only is it tacky, it's
               exploitation.

                           LARRY
               It's not exploitation.  These
               people wanna sell and I wanna buy.
               How are golf clubs exploitation?
                     (to a woman nearby)
               She takes one night class and
               suddenly she's a socialist.

                           KATE
               Sociologist.  And because.
                     (ticking them off)
               Pawn shops are just like
               prostitutes, farm auctions and coal
               miners.  They're all for sale, but
               none of 'em would be if they
               weren't desperate for the money.

                           LARRY
               We're all desperate for the money,
               doll.  That's what made this
               country great.
                     (to the woman
                      again)
               Back me up on this Candy, am I
               right?

                           KATE
               Don't call me doll, Larry.  I hate
               it when you call me doll.

                           LARRY
               You used to love it when I called
               you doll.

                           KATE
               You said it differently then.

                                             CUT TO:

Dwayne's got a captive audience and is holding court near the
front door.  Faith is across the room, a tray of food in her
hands.  The DOORBELL RINGS.

                           DWAYNE
                     (ignoring it)
               ...I'm not kidding.  All over the
               metatarsus.  Corns the size of your
               fist-- and this fungus...
                     (searching)
               You know the way tuna fish looks
               when it's been in the back of the
               refrigerator for about six months?
               Anyway--

His listeners start silently returning their hors d'oeuvres
to the serving trays.  The doorbell RINGS some more.

                           DWAYNE
                     (to Faith)
               Honey, could you get that?  I'm
               in the middle of a story here--

Faith sets down the tray.  Goes to the door.  Outside is
Leslie.

                           LESLIE
               Sorry I'm late.  I was waiting for
               a phone call.

Faith welcomes her in, introduces her to some other guests.
Larry comes over to congratulate his sister, gives her a kiss.
As he walks away,

                           KATE
                     (contemptuously)
               He begged me to marry him.  I
               didn't even want to marry him.

                           FAITH
                     (not unkindly)
               Yes you did.

                           KATE
               Well, I wouldn't've if I hadn't
               thought I was in love.

Off her look.

                           KATE
               He tricked me.  He was really fun
               back then.  And he was so cute...
                     (beat)
               How was I supposed to know that
               ten years down the road he'd turn
               out to be an idiot?

Dwayne pops his head in.

                           DWAYNE
               Hon-ey, picture time.

Faith gets up to follow him.  As they go, he turns to her,

                           DWAYNE
               You gonna leave your hair like
               that?

Her hair looks exactly as it has all evening.  But she's
anxiously trying to somehow rearrange it as the FLASH POPS,
and the FRAME FREEZES.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

INT. DOORWAY - LATER THAT NIGHT

The party's over.  They're saying goodnight to the few
remaining guests.  The door closes one last time.  Faith
starts cleaning up, picking up plates, etc.  Dwayne's standing
in the bedroom doorway, unbuttoning his shirt, already getting
ready for bed.

                           DWAYNE
               This was really nice.

                           FAITH
               It was, wasn't it?

                           DWAYNE
               You did a terrific job, honey.

                           FAITH
                     (pleased)
               Thanks.

                           DWAYNE
                     (putting his arms
                      around her)
               And just think...  This is only
               the beginning.

He kisses her forehead.  Releases her.  Heads for the bedroom.

                           DWAYNE
               Oh, sweetie, you won't forget to
               pick up my cleaning tomorrow, will
               you?

She starts to respond, but-- he's already disappeared.  A
distant roll of thunder rumbles through the room.  The
candlelight flickers.  And the rain descends.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

A sea of white, with a tiny face drowning in it.  Massive
sleeves, an enormous hoop skirt, tiers of cascading ruffles
drenched in acres of white sequins.

                           FAITH
               I feel like the Good Witch of the
               North.

Kate's helping Faith try on her gown and veil.

                           KATE
               Come on, it's not so bad.

                           FAITH
               Look how big it makes me look.
                     (she looks down)
               I look like an Alp.

                           KATE
               I think it was sweet of him to pick
               it out.

                           FAITH
               I know...  It was.

Kate positions the veil on her head.

                           KATE
               But what?

                           FAITH
                     (sighing)
               Oh, I don't know.  I guess it's
               just not quite the way I always
               thought it was going to be.  You
               know, like in the movies.

                           KATE
               That's the problem.  When you're
               a kid you think life is gonna be
               like the movies.  Dreams come true,
               the good guys win, people live
               happily ever after... all that
               crap.  Turn.

She turns.  Kate continues adjusting the veil, pinning it.

                           KATE
               But one day you wake up and realize
               you've been had.  Of course life
               isn't like the movies.  That's why
               there are movies.

                           FAITH
               Yeah.  I guess you're right.
                     (beat)
               I really like the wallpaper we
               picked out for the den.

But Kate's just getting warmed up.

                           KATE
               Let me tell you something about
               love.  There are no prince
               charmings, there are no glass
               slippers.  Love is hard work.

                           FAITH
               I know.  You're right.

                           KATE
               People have problems, insecurities,
               flaws-- and you have to learn to
               compromise, to overlook, to
               forgive.  It's not settling, Faith,
               it's life.  Real life.

Okay...

                           FAITH
               I understand, Kate.
                     (beat)
               What do you think of this garter?

                           KATE
                     (careening out of
                      control)
               I mean, just how long are you going
               to cling to this childish illusion
               that it's all supposed to be
               perfect?  Well, guess what?...
               It isn't.  Not for you, not for
               anybody.

Kate slams the pins down, scattering them.  A long beat of
silence.

                           FAITH
                     (quietly)
               Kate, is something the matter?

                           KATE
                     (shakily, staring
                      up at the ceiling)
               Larry brought me flowers last
               night.

                           FAITH
               Is that bad?...

                           KATE
               I think he's having an affair.

She buries her face in her hands.

                                             CUT TO:

They're sitting down.  Faith is handing Kate kleenex.

                           FAITH
               Okay.  Now.  Have you talked to
               him about this?

Still looking down, Kate mutely shakes her head, "no".

                           FAITH
               Have you seen him with someone?

                           KATE
               No...  I can just tell.

                           FAITH
               After all, he is my brother, and
               I know he can be kind of a jerk
               sometimes, but I know him pretty
               well, and I really don't think--

The PHONE RINGS.

                           FAITH
                     (reluctantly)
               Don't move.

Faith gets up and tries to head into the kitchen, but the
unfortunate combination of the big dress and the small doorway
stop her.  She tries a variety of approaches before finally
turning the hoop skirt on an angle and suspending part of it
over her head, enabling her to squeeze through the doorway
just far enough to knock the receiver off the hook and grab
it.

                           FAITH
               Hello?

There's a lot of noise on the other end.

                           FAITH
               Hello?  Is anybody there?

                           PHONE
                     (louder, over the
                      noise)
               Dwayne Pinsley?  I'm trying to
               reach Dwayne Pinsley.

                           FAITH
               He's not in at the moment.  Can
               I take a message?

                           PHONE
               Who's this?

                           FAITH
                     (trying to wrench
                      herself free from
                      the doorway)
               This is his fiancee.  Who's this?

                           PHONE
               Oh, hi.  I'm an old high school
               buddy of Dwayne's.  I was in town
               this weekend, was hoping to stop
               by and surprise him. But I've gotta
               catch a plane so I'm afraid I'm
               not gonna be able to make it.

Kate, wiping her eyes, mouths "who is it?"  Faith shakes her
head.

                           FAITH
                     (wanting to get
                      off the phone)
               I'm sure he'll be sorry to hear
               that.  Who should I tell him
               called?

                           PHONE
               My name's (lots of noise)

                           FAITH
               I can hardly hear you.  Could you
               spell that?

Kate hands Faith a pencil and the back of an RSVP card.  And
letter by letter, we watch Faith scrawl out a name which, for
the second time in the movie, we realize spells "Damon
Bradley".

The receiver clatters to the floor.

                           FAITH
                     (dumbstruck)
               Damon Bradley...

                           PHONE
               Right.  Thanks a lot.  And
               congratulations.  It's not easy
               finding love these days.

He's about to hang up.  She's shaken out of her stupor.  Grabs
the phone up off the floor.

                           FAITH
               WAIT!!  Where are you?

                           PHONE
               I'm at the airport.  Why?

                           FAITH
               Uh-- in case Dwayne wants to try
               to reach you.

                           PHONE
               Well, he'd have to hurry.  My
               flight leaves at four o'clock.

She checks her watch.  It's 3:15.

                           FAITH
                     (like a shot)
               Where are you going?

                           PHONE
               I'm on my way to Venice.  Why?

                           FAITH
                     (anything to keep
                      him on the phone)
               Venice?  I love Venice.  With the
               boats, right?...

                           PHONE
                     (he's distracted)
               Huh?  Uh, yeah-- I've gotta run.
               Tell Dwayne hi.  Maybe someday we
               can all get together.

Click.

                           FAITH
               But wait--  Hello?  Hello??

But there is only a dial tone.  She stands there clinging
desperately to the receiver.  A woman adrift in a life raft
who's suddenly seen a ship appear, then disappear back over
the horizon.

EXT. DRIVEWAY - AFTERNOON

Faith, still in her wedding gown, is racing to her car.  A
crazed gleam in her eye.  Kate is tagging after her.

                           FAITH
               It's a miracle.

                           KATE
               It's a coincidence.

                           FAITH
               The woman at my dry cleaners
               believes there's no such thing as
               coincidence.

Kate looks at her.  So what?

                           FAITH
                     (breathlessly)
               Okay, okay, but don't you think
               it's a weird coincidence?  Doesn't
               it seem like somebody's trying to
               tell me something?  And not only
               that, take a look at this...

Faith pulls a clipped copy of the day's horoscope from her
purse.  Kate scans the column.

                           KATE
               Taurus: "Today can be a fresh start
               and a new beginning."
                     (dropping it to
                      her side)
               Come on Faith, they all say that.
               In my case it means I'm gonna empty
               the dishwasher.

She snatches back the paper, undeterred.

                           FAITH
               I just want to get a look at him,
               that's all.

EXT. ROADWAY - AFTERNOON

Faith is driving like a maniac, her hoop skirt crammed in over
the edge of the dash, blocking the lower half of the
windshield.

EXT. AIRPORT - AFTERNOON

Faith screeches to a halt in the passenger loading zone,
somehow manages to muscle the round hoop into an ellipse, and
springs out the door.

She mashes herself into one of those glass-partitioned
revolving doors, but gets stuck, making a few revolutions
before a couple of PASSERS-BY help pry her out on the other
side.

She scans a departure screen for the flight to Venice and
buttonholes a SKY CAP.  He points to the distance.

She hikes up her gown and starts sprinting through the
airport, jumping luggage, can-can-ing through the turnstiles,
dodging kids, running up the down escalator.

INT. ALITALIA CHECK-IN COUNTER - AFTERNOON

Faith flings herself across the counter.

                           FAITH
                     (breathlessly)
               Flight 417.  Is it still here?

The CLERK gives her the once-over.  He hasn't seen this ploy
in awhile.

                           CLERK
               May I see your boarding pass,
               please?

                           FAITH
               I-- I must've misplaced it.

                           CLERK
               I'm sorry, but without a boarding
               pass we can't let you on the plane.

She starts digging through her purse, at the same time slowly
inching her way past the little rope they put up to block
people.

                           FAITH
                     (a smile)
               I'm sure I've got it here
               someplace...

He smiles back.  And tightens the rope.

                           CLERK
               Great.  Because, like I said, until
               you find it, we can't let you on
               the plane.

                           FAITH
                     (panic rising in
                      her voice)
               You don't understand.  The man I'm
               supposed to marry is on that plane.

                           CLERK
               Okay, ma'am, just a moment.

He picks up his phone.

                           CLERK
               Yeah, this is Mario over at
               Alitalia.
                     (sotto)
               We've got a 237 on our hands here.
               Uh huh.  Yeah.  Thanks.

He hangs up.  The engines can be heard revving outside.

                           CLERK
                     (back to her with
                      a plastic smile)
               It'll be just a moment.

We see a SECURITY GUARD approaching.  The Clerk starts waving
him over.  Meanwhile, CREW MEMBERS off an arriving flight are
entering through a side door.  Using her dress as a shield,
Faith manages to wedge a foot in it.

As the clerk turns to address the guard, she darts out and
starts sprinting across the tarmac for the plane--  where
they've just finished pulling the portable stairs away from
the cabin door.

As the plane starts to taxi, the GROUND CONTROLLER waves
frantically at her to get out of the way.  With an anguished
cry, she sinks to the ground as the jet SCREAMS overhead.

INT. AIRPORT BAR - AFTERNOON

CLOSE on a shooter of tequila.  A white-gloved hand picks it
up and downs it.  When,

                           O.S.
               Okay, where's the nut in the dress?

The BARTENDER casts a sympathetic glance towards the end of
the bar.  Points.  She's a pitiful figure, this bride in her
torn wedding gown getting bombed all alone.

                           SECURITY GUARD
                     (taking her by the
                      arm)
               Look, ma'am, we agreed not to press
               charges.  But I'm afraid we're
               gonna have to ask you to leave.

The bartender turns to her.

                           BARTENDER
               Can you drive?  Do you want us to
               call you a cab?

                           FAITH
                     (not at all fine)
               No, thank you.  I'm fine.

She gets up shakily.

                           BARTENDER
               I think we better call you a cab.
                     (picking up the
                      phone)
               Where is it you want to go?

Her eyes drift to the DEPARTURE SCREEN.  There's another
flight leaving for Venice in one hour.  And a sudden light
in her eyes.

Kate is on the telephone.

                           KATE
               But you're afraid to fly.

INT. AIRPORT - NIGHT

Faith is at a pay phone.  Feeling no pain.

                           FAITH
               It was my New Year's resolution
               to overcome it.

                           KATE (ON PHONE)
               But it's July.

                           FAITH
               It's still the new year...

                           KATE (ON PHONE)
               What about your job?

                           FAITH
               I have vacation time coming to me.

                           KATE (ON PHONE)
               You don't have a passport.

                           FAITH
               That's where you're wrong.  I got
               one nine years ago.  I just never
               had an opportunity to use it.

                           KATE (ON PHONE)
               Because you were afraid to fly.

                           FAITH
               Would you stop saying that?  I need
               you to do me a really big favor.

INT. KATE & LARRY'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

                           KATE
               Does Dwayne know about this?

                           FAITH (ON PHONE)
               Of course not.  I told him I was
               going to visit a great aunt.  And
               don't tell Larry, either.

Kate glances disdainfully over at Larry, who's engrossed in
the Home Shopping Club in the next room.

                           KATE
               How could I tell him?  I'm not even
               speaking to him.

EXT. DWAYNE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Kate and Leslie are there.  Kate knocks.  No answer.  She
pulls a key from beneath the mat and opens the door.

She calls out Dwayne's name.  No answer.  Nods to Leslie.

INT. AIRPORT - NIGHT

Faith, still in her bridal gown, is waiting impatiently at
the TWA terminal entrance.  Finally, she spots Kate and Leslie
in the distance, carrying a suitcase.  She rushes to them.

                           FAITH
                     (anxiously to
                      Leslie)
               Were you able to find it?

                           LESLIE
               At the very bottom of Dwayne's
               closet.

Faith clenches her fist in victory.

                           LESLIE
               But...  there wasn't a regular
               yearbook picture of him in there.
               He must've been absent that day
               or something.

Faith's face falls.

                           LESLIE
               However, he was in the marching
               band.

Faith brightens again, as Leslie pulls a contact lens case
from her purse.  She unscrews one side, empties the contents
into Faith's palm.  A fuzzy little image the size of an
eraserhead.  Damon Bradley, age 17, in the shadow of a tuba.
Faith holds the virtually microscopic black and white speck
up under her nose, examining it lovingly.

                           FAITH
                     (touched)
               Thanks, Leslie.

Then, ever so carefully, places it back into the case, puts
the case in her purse, and reaches for her suitcase.  Which
Kate is still holding onto.

                           KATE
               I can't believe we did this.  Do
               I have to remind you that your
               wedding is in six days?

                           FAITH
               Look, I know you think this is
               irresponsible of me, but think how
               much more irresponsible it would
               be to marry the wrong person.
                           (more)

                           FAITH  (Cont'd)
               What if Dwayne and I aren't really
               meant to be?  Is it fair of me to
               waste his life?

Kate reluctantly lets go.  Faith starts walking through the
terminal, pulling clothes from the suitcase.

They follow her into the ladies' room, where Faith changes
clothes.

                           LESLIE
               I think she's right.  You shouldn't
               let a chance like this slip by.
               What if he's really The One?

                           KATE
               Les-lie, he's not The One.  She's
               never even met this man.
                     (to Faith)
               You mean to tell me that you've
               spent your whole life waiting for
               somebody with this name--
                     (qualifying it)
               this name you got from a Parker
               Brothers game when you were
               eleven--

                           FAITH
               No, I haven't.  And you forgot
               about the fortune teller.

                           KATE
               My God, you have...

Faith hands her gown and car keys to Leslie.

                           FAITH
               Thank you so much.

                           KATE
               You're just going to fly to Italy
               and start combing the streets?

                           FAITH
                     (pulling a cocktail
                      napkin from her
                      purse)
               He was on his way to Venice, right?
               I called the tourist bureau and
               I must've called every hotel in
               the city, but I found where he's
               staying.
                           (more)

                           FAITH  (Cont'd)
                     (giddy)
               And I've made a reservation.

Kate shakes her head.  They exit out of the restroom and head
towards her gate.

                           KATE
               You don't even know what he looks
               like.  You don't speak the
               language.  You don't know your way
               around.  This is a total stranger,
               in a foreign land.

She's starting to get a little caught up in this.

                           KATE
               A foreign land full of millions
               of Italian men...  speaking Italian
               with Italian accents and those huge
               brown eyes and that silky olive
               skin...

                           FAITH
               How hard can it be?  I'll land
               there, I'll go to his hotel, I'll
               introduce myself, and--

                           KATE
               Live happily ever after.

                           FAITH
               Maybe.

Off Kate's look,

                           FAITH
               Look, until today, I had forgotten
               all about this.  And chances are
               I'll find out he's not for me and
               I'll come home and marry Dwayne
               and never bring this up again.
               But    what if this is the real
               thing, Kate?  What if this is the
               real real thing?

She steps aboard the escalator.

                           FAITH
               Wish me luck.

EXT. AIRPORT PARKING STRUCTURE - NIGHT

Leslie is behind the wheel of Faith's car, driving it home.
Kate is at the wheel of her station wagon, driving it back
home.  When at the last opportunity to recircle the airport,
Kate suddenly cuts the wheel.

INT. AIRPORT WAITING AREA - NIGHT

CLOSE on a Let's Go, Italy guide, an Italian-English
Dictionary, and a copy of How to Make a Man Fall in Love with
You}.  Faith is waiting at the gate.  She's packing the books
into her suitcase when the glitter of her ENGAGEMENT RING
catches her eye.  She looks around, before furtively sliding
it off.  She opens the coin purse of her wallet and is placing
it inside, when a pair of shoes appear in front of her.

                           O.S.
               Will you loan me some clothes?

Startled, she looks up.  Kate is standing there, holding her
passport.

                           KATE
                     (shrugs)
               I keep it in the glove compartment
               in case of emergencies.

                           FAITH
               You're coming with me?

Kate nods.  Faith throws her arms around her.

                           KATE
               I'm not saying I think it's a good
               idea.  But if you're going to
               insist on doing this, I don't think
               you should go alone.  You need to
               be sensible about it.

Their flight is announced.  They get up and start walking
towards the gate.

                           FAITH
               You're right.  The key is to go
               about this sensibly.  Logically.
               Rationally.

As they go,

                           FAITH
               Did I tell you I figured out we
               both have the same number of
               letters in our names?

INT. JET - NIGHT

As the plane slowly taxis, the FLIGHT ATTENDANTS go through
their standard litany of disaster.  As usual, everybody is
ignoring them.  Except for one passenger, who is looking
slightly green.

                           KATE
               You okay?

                           FAITH
               Sure.  I'm fine.  I don't know why
               I never did this before.  I mean,
               what's the big deal?

The plane starts picking up speed.

                           FAITH
               Except for the fact that I could
               lose my job.

The landscape is beginning to blur.

                           FAITH
               I could lose Dwayne.

They're rocketing down the runway.

                           FAITH
                     (suddenly clutching
                      Kate's arm)
               I'm afraid to fly.

The ear-splitting SHRIEK of a jet engine as the plane takes
off.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

INT. MARCO POLO AIRPORT, VENICE - LATE AFTERNOON

The two women enter the terminal.  Kate is jet-lagged and a
little dazed.  Faith is like a kid on Christmas morning.

                           FAITH
               We're here, we're here, we're here!
               I can't believe we're really here.

As they make their way to the baggage claim they're instantly
subjected to the Italian male's tendency to treat every female
in sight as if she were the first woman he'd ever seen in his
life.  Faith looks around ingenuously,

                           FAITH
               You know what?...  It seems like
               there's a lot more available men
               in Italy.

Kate rolls her eyes, grabs Faith by the elbow and steers her
out of there.

EXT. DOCKS, PIAZZALE ROMA - SUNSET

Our first view of Italy which, visually, is meant to be
idealized.  A place where the light is always golden, and the
streets are full of magic and romance.  It's not the real
Italy, it's the Italy of guidebooks.  Of memories and
dreams...

They stand at the edge of the docks which lead to the floating
city.  Faith looks around.

                           FAITH
               Now what do we do?

                           KATE
               The book said they have boats that
               are like taxis...
                     (scans LET'S GO)
               Vaporettos.
                     (looking up)
               What's the name of the place we're
               staying again?

                           FAITH
                     (cheerfully pulling
                      out the cocktail
                      napkin)
               It's called... the Gritty Palace.

                           KATE
               "Gritty"?  Is this gonna be one
               of those youth hostel dives jammed
               with backpackers who don't believe
               in deodorant?

                           FAITH
               I don't know...  Maybe.  Think of
               it as an adventure.

Faith spots a vaporetto.  As they dash towards it, somebody
pinches Kate.

                           KATE
               Ow!  What the--

She looks behind her.  The only person in the immediate
vicinity is a NINE-YEAR-OLD BOY, looking innocent.  She WHACKS
him.

                           KATE
               Cretin.

They step aboard just as the boat takes off, and Faith gazes
out into the distance, leaning out across the railing.

                           FAITH
               Oh, look Kate, look how
               beautiful...

And it is...  as they sail toward the splendor that is Venice
at twilight.

EXT. THE GRAND CANAL - TWILIGHT

Magic hour.  They float past ancient pallazi, their crumbling
facades rejuvenated in the gentle evening light.  Gondoliers
glide by.  Candlelit windows cast shimmering patches of gold
down onto the water.  It's just like the movies...  Eventually
the DRIVER calls out,

                           TAXI DRIVER
               Gritti Palace.

Faith can barely contain herself as they pull up alongside
one of the most elegant and expensive hotels in Venice.
Former home to Hemingway and Maugham.  Dock lanterns glow,
beckoning them into its sumptuous surroundings.

                           FAITH
               This is pretty ni-iice...

Kate smiles, then realizes,

                           KATE
                     (grabbing Faith's
                      arm)
               This is a Lifestyles hotel.

                           FAITH
               What?

                           KATE
               "Of the Rich and Famous".  Of which
               we are neither.  Are you out of
               your mind?  We can't afford this.

                           FAITH
                     (looking up at it)
               Are you sure?

                           KATE
               Yes.
                     (folding her arms)
               Cathy Lee Crosby stayed here.

                           FAITH
               Well, we're here.  And more
               importantly, he's here.
                     (stepping forward)
               We'll cut back on everything else.

She thanks the driver.  Pays him.  Steps off the boat.  Kate
doesn't move.

                           FAITH
               Kate.  It's one night.

She still doesn't move.

                           FAITH
               They take credit cards.

She's a statue.

                           FAITH
               We get frequent flyer miles.

EXT. GRITTI PALACE ENTRANCE - TWILIGHT

They enter the elegant lobby of the restored 15th century
palazzo.

                           FAITH
               I'm so glad I got up the nerve to
               do this.  All my life, I've waited
               for men to call.  Waited for them
               to ask me out.  Waited for them
               to make the first move.  Well, no
               more of that.  I am finally taking
               charge of my own destiny.

They arrive at the CONCIERGE's desk.

                           FAITH
                     (sotto)
               You ask what room he's in, okay?

                           CONCIERGE
               Buona notte.

                           KATE
               Hello.  Reservation for Faith
               Corbett, please.

He nods, starts punching something into his computer.  Kate
pulls something from her purse.

                           KATE
               And put it on this.

CLOSE on a CREDIT CARD which reads "LAWRENCE CORBETT".  Faith
looks at her.  Kate flashes a wicked smile.

                           KATE
               And, could you please tell us what
               room Mr. Bradley is in?

                           CONCIERGE
                     (politely)
               I'm sorry.  Mr. Bradley has already
               checked out.

The three cruelest words in existence, "already checked out".

                           FAITH
                     (disbelieving)
               Excuse me?

                           CONCIERGE
               Mr. Bradley left about a half hour
               ago.  He said his plans had changed
               unexpectedly.  Would you prefer
               an interior or exterior room?

                           FAITH
                     (dazed)
               He couldn't have checked out-- I
               was supposed to meet him here.

                           CONCIERGE
               I'm very sorry.  Perhaps you
               misunderstood?

He rings for the bellboy.

                           FAITH
                     (trying not to
                      panic)
               Are you absolutely sure he's gone?
               Maybe you made a mistake.  You
               must've made a mistake.  Could you
               check again?  Please?  Sir?

His polite veneer wearing thin, the man pulls a key from the
honeycomb of slots behind him.

                           CONCIERGE
               Room 217.  Would you like to go
               up and check under the bed?

She doesn't respond.  He replaces it.

                           FAITH
               Well, which way did he go?

The man stares at her blankly.

                           FAITH
               Nobody here has any idea which way
               he went?

                           CONCIERGE
                     (icily)
               Once they pay the bill, we don't
               usually follow them.

Kate leans across the counter and grabs him by the collar,
pressing her forehead to his.

                           KATE
               Maybe you don't understand.
                     (like she's
                      possessed)
               My friend was supposed to meet him
               here.

He starts to wrestle with her.  Faith steps in to help pry
Kate's fingers from the gentleman's neck.

                           FAITH
                     (to him)
               Excuse us.

He's still coughing as Faith leads her away from the desk into
the lobby.

                           KATE
               Well, he was rude.

They sit down.

                           FAITH
               I can't believe we came all this
               way and he's gone.

                           KATE
               You gave it your best shot.  You
               tried.

                           FAITH
                     (a whimper)
               We lost him?...

Kate nods sympathetically.

                           KATE
               You wait here.  I'm gonna go get
               us a room for the night.

Devastated, Faith stares vacantly into space.

                           FAITH
               I'll never meet the man of my
               dreams.

                           KATE
                     (to herself as she
                      goes)
               You and the other 99% of the women
               in the world.

As Kate heads back toward the check-in desk, Faith gets up
and approaches the DOORMAN.  She pulls the contact lens case
from her purse.  Unscrews one side and holds it out in front
of him.  He starts laughing.  She darkens.  He sobers, rattles
something off in Italian, gesturing toward the distance.

EXT. STREETS OF VENICE - NIGHT

The two women race along, over bridges, under streetlamps.
Faith is holding the case out in front of her sister-in-law.

                           FAITH
               Just once more, so you'll be sure
               to know what to look for.

                           KATE
               Faith, I've seen it already, okay?
               If I spot somebody who's got a head
               that's an eighth of an inch around,
               standing underneath a tuba, I'll
               recognize him from the photo.
               Otherwise, I'm telling you, it's
               not gonna do me any good.

Faith starts stopping people on the street, holding out the
case, encouraging them to peer in.  Some of them look at her
like she's nuts, a few shake their heads, one MAN finally
stops.  Examines it carefully.

                           FAITH
                     (anxiously)
               Did you see him?  Do you recognize
               him?

                           TOURIST
                     (looking up,
                      smiling)
               Candid Camera, right?
                     (he starts waving)
               Where is it?

She snatches it away.  Continues on.  But the crowd jostles
her.  She is bumped hard from behind.  And the photo goes
floating out into St. Mark's Square.  Frantically, she gets
down on her hands and knees, trying to keep people from
trampling it.

                           KATE
               What are you doing?

                           FAITH
                     (without looking
                      up)
               He fell out.

Reluctantly, Kate gets down on all fours, too.  Faith spots
the little face lying about two feet away.  She strains to
reach out, when a SHOE mashes down on her hand.  It lifts back
up, taking the photo with it, stuck fast to the sole.

Faith struggles to her feet, scooting after the MAN who's
moving at a fast clip.  She fights her way through the crowd,
tracing his footsteps, crouched to make sure it's still there.

He's heading toward the edge of the canal.  Is about to step
aboard a gondola, when Faith stands up and grabs his shoulder
from behind.  He turns.

                           FAITH
                     (breathlessly)
               Excuse me, sir, I'm sorry, but I
               think there's something that
               belongs to me stuck to the bottom
               of your shoe.

Confused, the guy looks down.  Faith reaches for his foot.

                           FAITH
               Do you mind if I just--

She takes the shoe, turns it over, twisting the man's leg and
knocking him off balance in the process.  Sending him toppling
into the water.

                           FAITH
                     (peering down from
                      above)
               Oh, I'm sorry...

But the shoe is still in her hand.  She turns it over, and
sure enough, the tiny image is still perched there.  She licks
a finger and triumphantly picks it up like a crumb.
Success...  Until a big gust of wind comes up, whisking the
little likeness into the Grand Canal.

INT. GRITTI PALACE LOBBY - NIGHT

A puddle of water is forming on the marble floor.

                           O.S.
               It wasn't like I did it on purpose.

Faith is dripping.  Looking like her world has come to an end.
She's holding a phone book, as Kate drops tokens into a pay
phone.

                           KATE
               You can't really blame him for
               being upset.  It was an Armani
               suit.

                           FAITH
               Did I or did I not offer to have
               it cleaned?

                           KATE
               I don't think he understood what
               you were saying.  What's the
               airport number?

A MAID walks by, wheeling a cart.  Suddenly, Faith's eyes
light up.

                           FAITH
               No...

She takes the receiver from Kate's hand, hangs it up.

                           KATE
               I just got a dial tone--

                           FAITH
               The guy at the desk said he only
               left about a half hour ago, right?

                           KATE
               So?

                           FAITH
               So, maybe his room hasn't been
               cleaned yet.  Maybe there's
               something in there that might help
               us.  Maybe they'll let us go in
               and take a look around.

They both turn to look at the concierge.  Look back at each
other.  Shake their heads.  Kate picks up the phone again.
Faith takes it from her, hangs it up again.  Looks pleadingly
at her friend.  Beat.

                           KATE
               I am not breaking into anybody's
               room.

INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - NIGHT

A wad of LIRE changes hands, as a MAID opens the door to room
217.

INT. ROOM 217 - NIGHT

It hasn't been cleaned.  In fact, it looks like a cyclone hit
it.

                           KATE (O.S.)
               So far, I'd say we're looking for
               a rich slob.

Kate stands with her hands on her hips, surveying the scene.
Faith spots a wastebasket in the corner.  She runs over to
it, picks it up, peers in.

                           FAITH
               Ah ha!...

                           KATE
               What'd you find?

                           FAITH
                     (charmed)
               A Butterfinger wrapper.

                           KATE
               A rich, possibly fat, slob.

                           FAITH
                     (hopeful)
               Maybe there's fingerprints on it?

                           KATE
               We're not looking to arrest the
               man, Faith, we're trying to locate
               him.

                           FAITH
               Oh.  Right.

She drops it.  Starts digging through the wastebasket again.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

A small pile of garbage spread out on the floor -- an apple
core, a couple more Butterfinger wrappers, some tissue, an
empty shampoo bottle, a soap wrapper.  Nothing very helpful.
There's only one more crumpled piece of paper yet to be
examined.

                           FAITH
               This our last hope.

She says a silent prayer.  Unfolds it.

                           FAITH
               We're saved!

                           KATE
               What is it?

                           FAITH
                     (saints be praised)
               A phone message.
                     (beat)
               Only--

                           KATE
               Only what?

                           FAITH
               Only, it's in Italian...

                                             CUT TO:

CLOSE ON the phone message and a hand holding it.

                           O.S.
                     (impatiently)
               So what is this?  He owes you
               money?

Pan up to the annoyed Concierge.

                           FAITH
               No...  it's just very important
               that I find him, okay?

                           CONCIERGE
               Why?

                           FAITH
               Because.

Beat.

                           KATE
               Look, it's very simple.  When she
               was eleven years old, she got this
               name--

Faith elbows her.

                           FAITH
                     (suddenly choking
                      up)
               He's my brother.

Kate looks at her.

                           FAITH
                     (holding back
                      tears)
               Yes, my long-lost brother.  See,
               uh, we were separated when we were
               very young.  The last time I saw
               him we were just babies, but I've
               recently found out that he's here
               in Italy.  And I'm here trying to
               find him.

That's the ticket.

                           FAITH
               You could say I'm sort of looking
               for my other half.

She smiles nervously.

                           KATE
               And she's going to be married in
               five days, and it would mean so
               much to her if she could find him
               before her wedding day.

Teary-eyed, Faith nods.

                           FAITH
                     (pleading)
               All I ask is that you just call
               this number and ask if they know
               him, if they have any idea where
               we might find him.

He looks at her.

                           CONCIERGE
               And then you promise you'll go
               away?

She nods energetically.

                                             CUT TO:

FINGERS DIALING.  As she and Kate wait,

                           KATE
                     (sotto)
               Your brother?

                           FAITH
               What was I gonna do?  Tell him the
               truth?

                           CONCIERGE
                     (into phone)
               Ai Monasteri?
                     (beat)
               Va bene.

He's on hold.

                           KATE
               A monastery?

Faith is looking stricken.

                           CONCIERGE
                     (coolly)
               It's a store.  In Rome.

She heaves a sigh of relief.  He goes back to the call.

                           CONCIERGE
               Si.  Sto cercando Damon Bradley?...
                     (beat)
               Si.  Si.  Grazie.  Ciao.

Hangs up.  They look at him expectantly.

                           CONCIERGE
                     (handing back the
                      message)
               He said he thinks a woman he works
               with knows him.  Her name's Anna.
               But she won't be in 'til tomorrow.

                           FAITH
               So.  How do we get to Rome?

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - SUNRISE

Somewhere in Tuscany.  Where the landscape looks like one of
those old Renaissance paintings.  Undulating hills,
sun-dappled olive groves, vast vineyards, crumbling
farmhouses.  They speed into the frame aboard a vespa.  Faith
is at the handlebars.

                           KATE
                     (over the wind)
               Couldn't we just have taken a
               train?

                           FAITH
                     (shaking her head)
               The book said they have a lot of
               rail strikes in Italy.

                           FAITH
               This way we're in control.
               Besides, look how pretty this is.
               We're really getting to see the
               countryside.

They speed off.  And a BUG smacks straight into Kate's mouth.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

LATER.  The front wheel of the vespa is rotating very slowly.
That's because they're pushing it.  In silence, until,

                           FAITH
                     (quietly)
               I told you a liter was less than
               a gallon.

                           KATE
                     (snapping)
               We would've had enough gas to get
               us there if you hadn't gotten us
               lost.  Besides, a kilometer is less
               than a mile.

                           FAITH
               Right.  So we should've been able
               to cover more of them.

Silence.

                           KATE
               Boy, we sure are seeing the
               countryside, alright.

Beat.

                           KATE
               I'm hungry.

                           FAITH
               You know, no offense or anything
               Kate, but I think I'm starting to
               see Larry's side of the story.

                           KATE
               What's that supposed to mean?...

                           FAITH
               Nothing.

They plod along again in silence.

                           FAITH
                     (throwing up her
                      hands)
               I thought all roads were supposed
               to lead there anyway.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

LATER STILL.  They've stopped to rest.  The sun is beating
down mercilessly.

Faith gets up, stands at the side of the road, arm and thumb
extended.

                           KATE
               I don't know that we should be
               accepting any rides from strangers.

Faith just looks at her.

                           FAITH
               You expecting somebody you know?

                           KATE
               Well, you don't have to get snippy
               with me.

                           FAITH
               Sorry.

After a beat,

                           KATE
                     (wounded)
               So, what exactly is Larry's side
               of the story, anyway?

                           FAITH
               I don't know, Kate.  I just said
               that.  I'm sorry.  I'm just on
               edge.
                     (gazing into the
                      distance)
               I'm afraid we're losing him.

                           KATE
                     (staring vacantly
                      ahead)
               You think he misses me at all?

                           FAITH
               'Course he does.

                           KATE
               You know, when Larry and I got
               married, I thought we were so lucky
               we found each other so early.
               People talk about spending their
               lives together, how many of them
               really get to?  But maybe I was
               wrong.  Maybe sooner or later
               everything wears out.

Faith turns to look at her sister-in-law.  She goes over and
kneels down next to her.

                           FAITH
               Remember in junior high, when I
               had that Halloween party?  And we
               were playing Twister.  And it
               landed on right-hand-red, and there
               was only one red spot left.  You
               reached for  it, but you started
               to fall.

                           FAITH
               And instead of taking it, Larry
               reached out to catch you.  He let
               you win.  Larry never let anybody
               win.  That's when I knew.  He was
               a goner.

Kate is idly doodling in the dirt with a twig.

                           KATE
               That was a long time ago.

                           FAITH
               And you know what I thought then,
               Kate?  I thought, I hope someday
               I have somebody who loves me that
               much.
                     (a confession)
               I still hope that.

Still looking down, Kate smiles ruefully.

                           KATE
               That you'll find someone who'll
               let you win at Twister?

She looks up, eyes full of doubt.  Faith nods solemnly.

                           KATE
               He went out and bought himself
               men's cologne the other day.  Did
               I tell you that?

                           FAITH
                     (concerned)
               Larry bought himself cologne?

                           KATE
               Polo.

Uh-oh.

Faith puts a consoling arm around her, and they sit there in
the Tuscan countryside.  In quiet contemplation of the
capriciousness of life and love.

INT. SQUASH COURT - DAY

Dwayne and Larry are playing.  Larry's clothes are very
wrinkled.

                           LARRY
               So, she just takes off on me.  No
               warning.  No explanation.  Just
               this message on the machine, "I'm
               leaving you.  Take the clothes out
               of the dryer."  I mean, what'd I
               do?

Larry smacks the ball.

                           DWAYNE
               I don't get it.  She hasn't seen
               her since she was a kid, now just
               because she's dying, all of the
               sudden she's gotta see her again?

                           LARRY
               She's been acting weird lately,
               though.  I shoulda seen it coming.
               Babbling on and on and on about
               "communication".  Like I don't know
               how to communicate.

                           DWAYNE
               Let's face it.  Sooner or later
               we all die.

                           LARRY
               Exactly.

After a beat, Larry stops the ball.

                           LARRY
               Who's dying?

                           DWAYNE
               Your great aunt.

                           LARRY
               What great aunt?

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD IN TUSCANY - DAY

They're walking again, both holding thumbs out now.  And their
prayers are answered.  A bright red FERRARI comes screeching
to a halt about ten feet in front of them.  They exchange a
look.  Faith dashes towards it.  Peers in the window,
converses with the driver a moment, then waves Kate over.

                           KATE
                     (lugging the
                      suitcase)
               You really think this is safe?

An interior shot of the car reveals a NUN behind the wheel.

                           FAITH
               I'd say so...

Kate takes a look inside,

                           KATE
               God, the Catholic Church is even
               richer than I thought.

She climbs in, and the car PEELS OUT.

EXT. STREETS OF ROME - DAY

The Ferrari zips into the Eternal City.  A wonderland of color
and history.

Baroque fountains spout cool, clear water; kids play soccer
in the ruins; lovers kiss in secluded corners; elegantly
stylish men and women sip espresso in sidewalk cafes, engaged
in conversations, flirtations, negotiations.  All the world's
a stage.

They screech to an abrupt halt directly in front of,

                           SISTER MARGHERITA
               Ai Monasteri.

They get out and are still thanking her profusely, standing
at the side of the car with suitcase in hand, when there is
a whisper from behind,

                           O.S.
               Do you believe in love at first
               sight?

Faith freezes.  Gazes heavenward.

                           FAITH
                     (like an oath)
               Yes.

She turns.  To discover that God is a practical joker.  The
guy is talking to Kate.  Slicked back hair, ponytail, a lot
of leather.  He looks awfully young.

                           KATE
               I'm married.

                           YOUNG ITALIAN STUD
                     (good-naturedly)
               I know, I saw your ring.  This is
               no problem.  I only want for us
               to be friends.

Uh huh.

                           YOUNG ITALIAN STUD
               I am Giovanni.

He kisses Kate's hand.

                           GIOVANNI
               And you are?...

                           KATE
                     (in spite of
                      herself)
               Kate.

                           GIOVANNI
               You are looking for a place to
               stay, no, Kate?

                           KATE
               No.  Well, I don't know.  Well,
               maybe.  Later.

                           GIOVANNI
               This is your most lucky day.  My
               family runs a pension not three
               blocks from here.

What a coincidence.  She looks at Faith.  In spite of herself,
she's a little charmed, flattered by him.  As they continue
up the steps,

                           GIOVANNI
                     (suggestively)
               I wait here for you.

INT. AI MONASTERI - DAY

Inside, a hushed environment, reminiscent of a monastery.
The store sells liqueurs, etc. made by monks.  Faith
approaches the counter, behind which one of those inordinately
fashionable Italian WOMEN is positioned.

                           FAITH
                     (almost whispering)
               Hello.  Uh, do you speak English?

                           WOMAN BEHIND COUNTER
                     (demure smile)
               A little.

                           FAITH
               Thank God.  I'm looking for Anna?

                           WOMAN BEHIND COUNTER
               I am Anna.

Overjoyed, Faith extends a hand.

                           FAITH
               Anna, I'm Faith.  You don't know
               how happy I am to meet you.  You
               see, I'm trying to find someone,
               and--

                           KATE
                     (perusing the
                      merchandise)
               Her brother.

                           FAITH
               Right.  My brother.

                           ANNA
                     (sweetness and
                      light)
               Your brother.  Fratello tuo.

                           FAITH
               Yes.  Right.  Si.  My fratello.
               And, I was thinking that maybe
               someone here, well, you, might know
               him.  His name is Damon Bradley?...

The woman's eyes narrow.

                           ANNA
               Damon Bradley.

                           FAITH
                     (more thrilled)
               Yes.  You do know him?

Anna slams her espresso down on the counter.

                           ANNA
               E' un porco!

                           FAITH
               Excuse me?

She starts ranting in Italian.  Faith pulls out her dictionary
and starts flipping frantically through it.  Kate comes over
with a handful of little bottles.

                           KATE
               What did you say to her?

                           FAITH
                     (still flipping)
               I don't know.  I just asked her
               if she knew him and all of the
               sudden--

                           KATE
               What's she saying?

Faith shoots her a look.

                           KATE
               Oh.
                     (beat)
               Wait a minute--

Kate rushes to the door,

                           KATE
               Hey, Giovanni...

He comes running.  Kate hustles him inside and over to Faith.

                           KATE
                     (to him)
               My friend is looking for her
               brother and she thinks this woman
               knows where he is.  Can you tell
               us what she's saying?

                           GIOVANNI
               She's saying he's a-- a--
                     (snapping his
                      fingers, he can't
                      think of the word)
               porco.

                           KATE
               A porco?

                           GIOVANNI
                     (then suddenly)
               A pig!  A pig!
                     (to Faith,
                      apologetic)
               She's saying he's a pig.

Anna's starting to throw things.

                           GIOVANNI
               A very large pig.

                           FAITH
               Ask her if she knows where he is?

                           GIOVANNI
               Sa dov'e' lui?

She screams for about a minute.  He turns to Faith.

                           GIOVANNI
               No.

                           FAITH
               Ask her if she knows how I might
               reach him?  If she has a telephone
               number?

                           GIOVANNI
               Ha un numero di telefono?

She yells some more.

                           GIOVANNI
               She did, but she...

She rips a napkin into shreds.

                           GIOVANNI
               ...misplaced it.

More yelling.

                           GIOVANNI
               He thinks she's going to meet him
               at Mezzaluna tonight, but she--

                           ANNA
               HAH!

She hits her inner elbow with the edge of her other hand, in
the Italian version of the finger.

                           GIOVANNI
               ...has a prior commitment.

                           FAITH
               What's mezzaluna?

                           GIOVANNI
               A restaurant.  In Piazza Navona.

                           FAITH
                     (ecstatic)
               That's it.  That's it.  That's all
               I need to know.
                     (to her and
                      Giovanni)
               Bless you, thank you, thank you.

The PROPRIETOR rushes in from the back of the store, makes
her apologize to the nice customers.

                           ANNA
                     (grudgingly)
               Sorry.

                           PROPRIETOR
                     (that's better)
               Cosi va bene.

As Faith heads toward the door, she yells after her,

                           ANNA
               I'm sorry your brother is a pig!

                           KATE
                     (with the bottles)
               Who is it I pay for these?

                                             CUT TO:

EXT. AI MONASTERI - MOMENTS LATER

As they emerge from the shop and head down the stairs, Kate
is looking skeptical.

                           FAITH
               All that proves is that she wasn't
               the woman who was meant for him.

Faith throws her arms around her in celebration, dancing in
the street.

                           FAITH
               And now we know where he's gonna
               be.

EXT. PENSION - AFTERNOON

ANGLE ON a sign, "PENSIONE DIVINO AMORE".  Giovanni is helping
them carry their things into the hotel.  He leads them to
their room, opens the door.  Faith enters.  As Kate follows,
he momentarily pulls her aside,

                           GIOVANNI
                     (apologetically)
               I must leave town for two days.
               Was unavoidable.  But, day after
               tomorrow,
                     (with import)
               I return...

He places the key in her hand.  Holding his own there longer
than necessary.

INT. PENSIONE ROOM - LATER

Faith is in the shower.  Kate's got an Italian smorgasbord
arrayed before her.  Is browsing "How to Make a Man, etc.".

EXT. PENSION - EVENING

They're on their way out the door, dressed to the nines.  As
Kate turns their key in to the desk, Giovanni whispers in her
ear,

                           GIOVANNI
               Forty-eight hours...

Nods meaningfully.

EXT. PIAZZA NAVONA - NIGHT

They emerge from a cab into a dreamlike landscape, illuminated
by the lights Bernini's Fountain of the Four Rivers and the
strolling FIRE-EATERS performing in the piazza.  Everything
seems to be moving in slow motion.

                           FAITH
               All of the sudden, I'm feeling kind
               of nervous.
                     (wringing her
                      hands)
               God, I hate blind dates.  Why
               couldn't we just have arranged
               marriages in America?

                           KATE
               You're right.  At least that way
               you could spend the rest of your
               life blaming your parents instead
               of yourself.  Smile.

Faith smiles.  And they enter the restaurant -- a sea of
frescoes, flowers, crystal and silver, all awash in
candlelight.  "Some Enchanted Evening..."

From Faith's POV we see various and sundry men acknowledge
or appear oblivious to her expectant face.  A smile here, a
glance there.  He could be any of them.  Or none of them.

                           FAITH
                     (through her smile)
               Let's get a drink.

They take a seat at the bar.  Unbeknownst to them, an
extremely handsome MAN at a table on the terrace is eying them
intently.

                           KATE
               Aren't you going to ask the
               maitre'd if he's here?

It's all come down to this.  A whole lifetime of waiting,
searching, hoping...

                           FAITH
                     (suddenly chicken)
               I sort of wanted to wait to see
               if maybe he'd notice me first?

                           KATE
               You've travelled over six thousand
               miles and now you're gonna play
               hard to get?

The MAN from the terrace is getting up.  Is coming their way.
Kate elbows her.  "Some Enchanted Eeeevening"...

                           KATE
                     (sotto)
               He's a god.

He approaches.

                           ADONIS
               Excuse me, I hope you don't think
               I'm being too forward.  I'm here
               waiting for a friend, but I
               couldn't help noticing the two of
               you.

Faith is giddily kicking Kate under the table, but no words
are coming out.  Kate steps in.

                           KATE
               We noticed you, too.

It's really happening.

                           ADONIS
               I was wondering if you might be
               persuaded to join me--

It really is...

                           KATE
                     (getting up)
               We'd love to.

                           ADONIS
                     (extending a hand)
               Great.  I'm Guiseppe Romano.

Faith's face falls.

                                             CUT TO:

They're back at the bar by themselves.

                           KATE
               So what's in a name?  I wanna join
               him.  I don't see why we can't join
               him.

                           FAITH
               I told you.  If he sees me here
               with another guy, he's gonna think
               I'm here with another guy.  I just
               don't want to send any confusing
               signals.

Kate glances back over at him.  Waves.

                           KATE
                     (to Faith)
               Well, how come we're always looking
               for guys for you?

                           FAITH
               Because I'm the one who's single.

                           KATE
                     (sulking)
               I never even got to be single.

                           FAITH
               Sure you did.

                           KATE
               Not if you don't count the sixth
               grade.

                           FAITH
               Okay, okay.  You join him.  But
               first will you ask if he's here?

We watch from a distance as Kate gets up and approaches the
MAITRE'D.  He gestures towards a booth on the other side of
the room.  She thanks him and makes a beeline back to the bar.

                           KATE
               He's heeeeeerrre...

                           FAITH
                     (nervously looking
                      around)
               Oh my God.  Where?

                           KATE
               He's sitting in the fourth booth
               down, on the left hand side, with
               his back to us.  He's wearing a
               navy jacket.  If you turn around,
               you can see part of his right
               elbow.

                           FAITH
                     (not moving a
                      muscle)
               Is he looking at us?

                           KATE
                     (glancing over her
                      shoulder)
               Nope.

Faith tries to peek around without being too obvious.  And
slips off her bar stool, almost knocking over the drink of
the person next to her.  She grabs it, awkwardly climbs back
onto the stool.  Then pulls out a compact and checks out the
view.

                           FAITH
                     (like she's twelve)
               Oooooo, I can see his sleeve...

After a beat.

                           FAITH
               I guess I should just go over and
               introduce myself, huh?

Kate nods.  Faith puts the mirror away.  Starts to get up.

                           FAITH
                     (sitting back down)
               Who do I say I am?

                                             CUT TO:

Moments later.  Having gotten her story straight.  She gets
up again.

                           FAITH
               Right, right...  Okay..
                     (suddenly seized
                      with self-doubt)
               You don't think he's gonna think
               I'm too aggressive?

                           KATE
               Faith.  So far you've trailed the
               man halfway around the globe.  At
               this point, I don't think another
               fifteen feet is gonna tip the
               scales.

                           FAITH
               Right.  Okay...  It's meant to be
               right?
                     (a deep breath)
               This is it.

She straightens her skirt.  Starts to walk toward him again,
when,

                           KATE
               Faith--

                           FAITH
                     (turning anxiously)
               What?

                           KATE
               Good luck.

Faith smiles gratefully back at her.  Kate motions, "go on"...
Then turns back towards Guiseppe. Faith collects herself.
A woman with a mission.  Begins striding purposefully towards
him.

Focused only on that special arm as, with each step, a little
more of it comes into view.

Only a few more feet.  There is nothing between her and him
now but that WAITER with the enormous tray of pasta coming
from the other direction.  But, alas...  In a collision worthy
of inclusion in the "agony of defeat", the tray and all its
contents go sliding down over her.  All eyes turn her way,
and she stands there, paralyzed in an agonizing moment of dead
silence.  Then, with an anguished howl, she dashes to the
ladies room.  Kate gets up and goes rushing in after her.
And, back out in the restaurant, a pair of feet get up and
step gingerly over the remains of somebody's angel hair pasta.

Seconds later, with an enormous wet orange spot on her dress,
Faith bursts out of the ladies room.  And discovers he's gone.

The women bolt out the door, just in time to glimpse a man
in a navy jacket disappear down the subway stairs in the
distance.  In hot pursuit, Faith flings off her heels and
sends them flying.  One of them BONKS a PASSER-BY, another
MAN clad in a white shirt and carrying a navy jacket, on the
head.  We may get only a brief look at this guy, but it's
enough to establish that while he may not be drop-dead
gorgeous, any woman with any sense wouldn't kick him out of
bed for munching saltines either.   There's an undeniable
warmth in his eyes.

But Faith doesn't see him at all, because as he bends down
to pick up her shoe, he disappears from sight in the crowd,
and she races madly past him.  Down the subway stairs, into
the tunnel-- and into a mob.

INT. SUBWAY TUNNEL - NIGHT

She battles her way through the throng, hopping up and down
to try to get an overview, but there is no sign of him.  She
dashes from car to car, pounding on windows, calling out his
name.  Until, in a sudden whoosh, the doors close, and the
train speeds off into the night.

But she's still running after it.  Desperately.  Until it
finally vanishes around a corner, out of sight.  And she sinks
to the ground, arms outstretched in the darkness...  in vain.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. PIAZZA NAVONA - NIGHT

CLOSE ON an abandoned shoe.  A hand picks it up.

                           KATE (O.S.)
               I found one.

The two of them are wandering the piazza.  Faith puts the shoe
back on and, with one bare foot, limps over to a table.  Her
dress is stained, her nylons are run, a few stray noodles
still cling to her hair.  Basically, she's a disaster.

As they sit down,

                           KATE
               Well, nobody can say we didn't try.

                           FAITH
                     (not hearing this)
               Okay, here's what I think.  We
               find out what all the subway stops
               for that train are-- the subway
               system's really not that big in
               Rome, we could narrow it down and--

                           KATE
                     (not believing
                      this)
               And then what, Faith?

                           FAITH
               And then... we rent a truck, or
               a car, either one, and we set up
               a loudspeaker, and we drive through
               the surrounding areas, and we page
               him.

Simple as that.  Kate just stares at her, dumbfounded.

                           FAITH
               What?...  My hair?

When,

                           O.S.
               I like the style.  I just don't
               think this color works for me.

They look up.  It's the STRANGER in white with her other shoe
in his hand.

                           FAITH
               Oh.
                     (reaching for it)
               Thank you.

                           DAMON
               Allow me.

He kneels down and places the shoe on her foot.  Then gazes
up into her eyes.

                           FAITH
               Thanks very much.
                     (back to Kate)
               So what do you think?

Kate looks at him.  Kind of charmed.

                           KATE
               That was really sweet...

                           FAITH
               I meant about my idea.

                           KATE
               I think it's time we got some
               professional help.

                           FAITH
                     (nodding)
               Like a detective.

                           KATE
               No... Like a psychiatrist.

                           FAITH
                     (looking around)
               Don't be silly.  How's a
               psychiatrist gonna find him?

He's still kneeling there.

                           FAITH
                     (to him again)
               Thank you.

Now go away.  He sits down at a table nearby.  Stares over
at Faith.  She spots an Italian policeman, or CARABINIERE,
standing at the edge of the piazza.

                           FAITH
               I'm gonna go see what I can find
               out about speaker rental.

She gets up, the STRANGER gets up, as if to follow.  She looks
at him like he's nuts.

                           FAITH
               Excuse me.

Steps around him to head toward the cop.  He sits back down.

                           DAMON
                     (to Kate)
               So, what's the story with your
               friend?

                           KATE
                     (watching her in
                      amazement)
               My friend has lost her fucking
               mind...

                           DAMON
               What's she doing?

Kate turns to him,

                           KATE
               She's trying to find out where she
               can rent a loudspeaker.

                           DAMON
               What for?

                           KATE
               So she can drive through the
               streets of Rome paging the man of
               her dreams.

He laughs.

                           DAMON
               No, really.  What's she doing?

                           KATE
               Really.  She thinks he's here.
               Even though she's never met him.
               Even though she's never laid eyes
               on him.

                           DAMON
                     (still not
                      believing her)
               Seriously.

Kate just looks at him.

                           DAMON
               Oh.  Well, what's wrong with that?

He gazes over at her, gesticulating wildly in the distance.

                           DAMON
               Only... if she's never met this
               guy, what makes her think he's
               perfect for her?

Kate just shakes her head.  Don't ask.

                           DAMON
               Were they pen pals?

                           KATE
               No.

                           DAMON
               Is he some kind of celebrity or
               something?

                           KATE
               No.

                           DAMON
               Did he do some anonymous good deed
               for her?

An exasperated sigh.

                           KATE
               She got his name off a Ouija board
               when she was eleven.

She holds out her palms.  What can I tell you?

A beat.  Then,

                           DAMON
               What is his name?...

Faith comes trudging back, in tears.

                           FAITH
               He said it would take at least six
               months to get a permit for a
               loudspeaker.  And, you have to get
               the Pope to approve it.

Defeated, she picks up her purse.

                           FAITH
               Let's just go.

Kate puts her arm around her and they start walking.  The
STRANGER grabs his jacket off the back of his chair.  Tags
after them.

                           DAMON
                     (anxiously)
               Will you be staying in Rome long?

She doesn't respond.

                           DAMON
               Your friend said you were looking
               for someone?
                     (at her side)
               Maybe I can help you track him
               down.  I speak a little Italian.
               And I have a friend who works at
               the embassy.  Maybe we could--

She's trying to wave down a TAXI.

                           FAITH
               Thank you, but I really don't want
               any help.

                           DAMON
               What's his name?  I'll look into
               it for you.  I could give you a
               call.

A CAB slows to a stop in front of them.

                           FAITH
               Look, I appreciate the offer, but--

She reaches for the door.  He's standing in the way.

                           DAMON
               Just tell me his name...

She blows her nose noisily.

                           FAITH
                     (to get rid of him)
               Damon Bradley.

He stares at her.

                           DAMON
                     (stunned)
               But, that's-- I'm Damon Bradley...

Still wiping her nose, she notices the jacket in his hands,
then looks up into his eyes.  The wind rustles through the
trees.

                           FAITH
               You're...

He nods.  Amazed.

                           FRANCESCA
               And you're the biggest mess I've
               ever seen.

She reaches for her hair.

                           FRANCESCA
               I find that very attractive.

And she faints.  Dead away.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Having regained consciousness, Faith is across a candlelit
table from him.  They're engrossed in conversation.  In each
others' eyes.  Tables around them have all emptied.  A waiter
in the background is trying to prop his eyes open.

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               ...Coming so close and yet just
               missing each other.  Do you know
               what I mean?

Does she know what he means...

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               There's this poem by Rilke, I don't
               remember the whole thing, but it's
               about that.  About waiting for that
               person, and wondering if you'll
               ever find them.  And the last line
               of it goes, "Who knows?  Perhaps
               the same bird echoed through both
               of us, yesterday--

                           FAITH
               --separate, in the evening..."

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
                     (slowly,
                      spellbound)
               Yes.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

MONTAGE.   To the Beatles' "I Will"

PENSION DIVINO AMORE - Faith hops out Damon's car.  He waits.
She dashes inside, practically skipping.

Moments later, having changed clothes, floats back out and
they take off again.  Up above, Kate watches wistfully out
the window.

DRY CLEANERS - Dwayne is there trying to pick up his stuff.
The CLERK is holding out a ticket.  "You have to have one of
these."

THE FORUM - The sun is coming up over the ruins.  Faith and
Damon stroll through them.  Damon pulls out a "doggie bag".
Sets down a little container of pasta for the wild cats that
roam Rome.

McDONALDS - Rome's golden arches.  Kate is munching on a Big
Mac, and working on a postcard:  "Dear Larry,".  Somebody
cruises by her table, snakes out a hand, reaching for her
purse.  Without so much as an upward glance, she flicks out
a leg and trips him.

CAMPO DEI FIORI MARKET - The enormous outdoor market where
everything from orchids, to watermelon, to live eels and
octopus are in abundant display.  Damon buys Faith a gardenia.
She puts it in her hair.

GIOLITTI - A gelateria.  Kate's eating ice cream.  Still
working on the postcard:  "Dear Larry".  Nothing more.
Finally crumples it up.

THE SPANISH STEPS -  Faith and Damon are sitting on the edge
of the steps watching the street show that is Rome, when a
LOCAL approaches with a Polaroid.  Selling pictures.  They
pose.

                           FAITH
               My hair's kind of a mess, isn't
               it?

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               Your hair... is perfect.

He leans in and kisses her.  And from this angle, except for
the clothes, they look an awful lot like Rodin's version, as
the FRAME FREEZES.

CLOSE on the photo.  She looks up from it.

                           FAITH
               You don't think this is just
               infatuation, do you?

                           FRANCESCA
               Oh no.
                     (beat)
               Do you?

                           FAITH
               No.

He takes her hand.  Both a little unnerved, they walk.  Until,

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               But...  just to be sure, maybe we
               ought to shatter each other's
               unrealistic images of perfection.
               You know, each of us admit
               something embarrassing about
               ourselves.

                           FAITH
               Okay.  Good idea.  You first.

                           FRANCESCA
               Me first?  Alright, well,
                     (beat)
               Something embarrassing, right?
               Something we don't want to admit
               in public.

She nods.  He thinks a moment.  Then,

                           FRANCESCA
                     (sheepish)
               I'm a liberal.

She looks at him with amazement.

                           FAITH
               I'm a liberal!

                           FRANCESCA
                     (disbelieving)
               No...

                           FAITH
                     (solemnly)
               My car bumper has never held a
               winning sticker.

They gaze deeply at one another.

                           FRANCESCA
               Well, as long we both know we're
               going into this with our eyes wide
               open...

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. VIA MARGUTTA - TWILIGHT

A lantern-lit street of 18th century facades.  A faint breeze
stirs the trees above.  Strains of opera float out a window.
Faith is looking around.  Finally, though they're not
overlooking anything,

                           FAITH
               You're right.  This is a really
               pretty view.

He smiles.

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               Not this.

He leads her out to the center of the street.  Tilts his head
back.  She follows and they walk, with their necks craned
back, like two drunken sailors, like two kids.

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               This...

And up above, in the houses and apartments lining either side
of the street, visible through the unshuttered windows, are
gilded ceilings and candlelit vaults of angels.  And beyond
those, the star-studded, indigo summer sky.
               It's all a matter of how you look
               at it.

INT. PENSION BAR - NIGHT

Kate's down at the bar, talking to the Italian BARTENDER.

                           KATE
               So, you're saying you think I
               should call him.

He draws a beer.

                           BARTENDER
               He is your husband, no?

                           KATE
               Yes, but...  He was having an
               affair.

                           BARTENDER
               Si.

So what?  He picks up a napkin and sets the glass down on it.

                           KATE
               The point is, he was sleeping with
               another woman.

Beat.

                           BARTENDER
               Uh huh.

How much clearer can she make it?

                           KATE
               They were having sex.

Finally, it dawns on him.

                           BARTENDER
                     (nodding gravely)
               She was your sister.

                           KATE
               No, she wasn't my sister.

                           BARTENDER
                     (shaking his head
                      in sympathy)
               Your mother.

                           KATE
               Of course not.

                           BARTENDER
                     (another stab)
               Your grandmother?

                           KATE
               Look, she wasn't a relative, okay?
               I don't know who she is.

Big deal.  He rolls his eyes and dismisses it with a wave of
his hand.

                           KATE
               So, how much longer 'til Giovanni
               gets back?

EXT. THE TREVI FOUNTAIN - NIGHT

It's all lit up.  And deserted at this late hour.  The water
glows, ethereal blue.  They sit at the edge, bare feet
dangling in.  Damon picks up one of her shoes.

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               I think I'll have it bronzed.

She smiles.  Then sobers.

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               What?...

                           FAITH
               I feel like I've been wandering
               in the desert for as long as I can
               remember.  With nothing but
               emptiness around me, wind and
               sun...  And suddenly, out of the
               blue, somehow I've found the oasis.

He takes her face in his hands.  Solemnly, almost mystically,
kisses her eyes... her mouth...

Until,

                           FAITH
               There is one other thing you should
               know about me.

                           FRANCESCA
               Nothing you could say would change
               the way I feel.

                           FAITH
               I'm engaged.  I'm supposed to be
               married in two days.

                           FRANCESCA
               Except possibly that.

She gets up.  Heavy with guilt.

                           FAITH
               And, he's a friend of yours.  It's
               Dwayne.

                           FRANCESCA
               Dwayne?

                           FAITH
               Dwayne Pinsley.  From high school.
               That's how I knew you were here.
               When you called, from the airport.

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               Oh, right.  Dwayne.
                     (beat)
               You're engaged to Dwayne?

                           FAITH
                     (like she's trying
                      to explain an
                      affair)
               It just happened.  I didn't plan
               it.  I was alone.  And he was...
               there.  But now everything's
               changed.  I owe it to him to let
               him know.  I need to tell him.

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               You're sure...

                           FAITH
               I've never been more sure of
               anything in my life.

He smiles.

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               Good.

                           FAITH
               Let's find a telephone.

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               Sure-- But, before you do that,
               since we're putting all our cards
               on the table, I have a confession
               to make, too.

She pauses,

                           FAITH
               Okay.

He looks at her worriedly.

                           FAITH
               Don't be afraid.  You can tell me.

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               You're sure...

                           FAITH
               We found each other, didn't we?

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
                     (hesitantly)
               Yes.  We did.

                           FAITH
                     (a whisper)
               It's alright...  this is our
               destiny.

He takes a deep breath.

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               Okay.  Okay, the thing is... I'm
               not exactly...  I mean-- only in
               the most literal sense-- I'm not
               Damon Bradley.

The fountain just dropped twenty feet.

                           FAITH
                     (staring straight
                      ahead)
               What?

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               My name isn't Damon Bradley.  I
               just told you it was Damon Bradley.

                           FAITH
                     (numbly)
               What is it?

                           PETER
               It's Peter Wright.

He heaves a sigh of relief.  Draws her to him again.

                           PETER
               Boy, am I glad that's over with.

She's frozen.  He's noticing this.  Until she extricates
herself from his arms.

                           PETER
                     (to himself)
               I had a feeling this was gonna be
               a problem.
                     (to her)
               You're upset, right?

She shoots him a look.  Starts putting on her shoes.

                           PETER
               Everything else is true.  I swear.
               I am a liberal.  I do live in
               Boston.  I am a zoologist.  I did
               see "Local Hero" fifteen times.
               I am single.  I don't believe in
               Scientology and I don't smoke.
               But, okay, I admit it, mea culpa,
               I lied about one little thing.

She runs out to the street.  Starts waving for a cab.

                           FAITH
               One little thing?  You call your
               identity one little thing?

Following after her,

                           PETER
               You've never lied?

Beat.

                           FAITH
               That's not the point.

                           PETER
               You said whatever it was you would
               understand.

                           FAITH
               That was before I found out what
               it was.

A taxi approaches.

                           PETER
               You're leaving?

No response.

                           PETER
               Wait--  Let's put this in
               perspective.  You're going to let
               a few little letters keep us apart?

No response.  The cab stops.

                           PETER
                     (grasping at
                      straws)
               Look, if the name's that much of
               a problem, why don't you just call
               me that?  It'll be my nickname.

She opens the taxi door.

                           FAITH
                     (on the brink of
                      tears)
               How could you do this to me?

                           PETER
                     (innocently)
               I'm in love with you.

                           FAITH
               Oh, come on...  What kind of an
               excuse is that?

And this time, the door SLAMS in his face.

EXT. PENSION LOBBY - NIGHT

The cab pulls up.  Faith gets out, drags into the hotel,
looking shell-shocked.  From the bar, Kate spots her and
rushes over.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

INT. PENSION BAR - MINUTES LATER

Kate and Faith are both at the bar, staring off into the
distance.  Getting bombed.

                           KATE
               Yeah.  Sociopaths.  They're able
               to figure out what you want them
               to be and then they act like that.

                           FAITH
                     (tearfully)
               But how could he know?  He only
               just met me.

                           KATE
               Men have ways.

Kate shakes her head.

                           KATE
               What a drag.  You finally meet the
               man of your dreams and he turns
               out to be a pathological liar.

Faith wails.

INT. PETER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

He's on the telephone.

                           PETER
               Still busy?  Okay, can I leave
               another message, please?
                     (beat)
               Alright, the message is, would she
               rather have the wrong guy with the
               right name or the right guy with
               the wrong name?
                     (beat)
               No-- no, no.  They alternate, see?
               It's the wrong guy--

INT. PENSION ROOM - NIGHT

CLOSE on the receiver, off the hook.  Faith is in bed, wide
awake, staring mournfully up at the ceiling.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. PENSION ROOM - THE FOLLOWING MORNING

Kate is on her way out the door.  She opens it-- to find Peter
outside in the hallway, carrying a bouquet of flowers the size
of a refrigerator.

                           PETER
                     (moving past her)
               I have to talk to her.

                           KATE
               She's not here.

                           PETER
               Where is she?

                           KATE
               She went out to check into
               skywriting.  I can't believe you
               lied.  Is this a genetic thing,
               men will say anything just to get
               laid?

                           PETER
               No!  That's not fair.  That's not
               it at all.  Look, something
               somewhere got screwed up.  Maybe
               some metaphysical wires got
               crossed.  I may not have the right
               name, but I was there.  I'm the
               guy.  I'm-- skywriting??

She eyes him skeptically.

                           KATE
               You didn't think this would be a
               problem?

He starts pacing.

                           PETER
               It was an emergency.  I only lied
               that night because it was the only
               way I knew to stop her.  I knew
               if I didn't, I'd never see her
               again.

                           KATE
               Good strategy.

                           PETER
               Do you know I wasn't even supposed
               to be in Rome?  My boss was
               supposed to come to this
               conference, and at the last minute
               he got the measles.  The measles.
               Who gets the measles at
               forty-three?  So they sent me.
               And I wasn't supposed to be in that
               piazza that night either.  I'd gone
               to the movies, only it was sold
               out.  So I was wandering around.
               Just wandering...  When I got hit
               in the head with this shoe.

He gazes out at the Roman skyline,

                           PETER
               And then I saw her.  And all I know
               is, when I looked in her eyes I
               saw something... light.  And life
               and passion and yearning.  And
               something else I can't even put
               my finger on, something I'd never
               seen before--

                           KATE
               Mania.

                           PETER
               Whatever.  And I thought, please
               God, give me a sign, give me some
               way to keep this woman from getting
               into that taxi and disappearing
               from my life forever.  And He did.
               She told me the name.  Granted,
               it wasn't my name, but it was a
               start.

He turns to Kate.

                           PETER
               And if that's not destiny, I don't
               know what is.

                           KATE
                     (touched)
               That's really romantic.

She places a consoling hand on his shoulder,

                           KATE
               Too bad she hates your guts.

Starts leading him toward the door.

                           PETER
               It's just a name for chrissakes.
               The whole thing is so ludicrous.
               For all she knows, this guy could
               be the biggest loser on the face
               of the planet.  He could have a
               criminal record.
                     (throwing up his
                      hands)
               He could think Ronald Reagan was
               a great president.

Kate shrugs.

                           PETER
               I mean, realistically, what are
               the odds that this is a terrific
               guy?

                           KATE
                     (flatly)
               Ten billion to one.

Beat.

There's a KNOCK at the door.  She opens it.  It's Giovanni
-- with a single rose.

                           GIOVANNI
               Guess who-oooo...

He sees Peter and the other flowers.

                           GIOVANNI
               Oh.

                           KATE
                     (quickly)
               Giovanni, this is Faith's friend,
               Peter.

                           GIOVANNI
               Oh, hello.
                     (to Kate)
               I just came by to see if you wanted
               to join me for a drink, but--

                           KATE
               I'd love to.

She heads for the door.

                           PETER
                     (pleading eyes)
               Please.  You've got to help me.

She considers him.

                           KATE
               I'll see what I can do.

INT. COCKPIT OF A TEENY TINY PLANE - DAY

Faith is strapped into the passenger seat of a miniscule
two-seater.  White-knuckled.  Staring wide-eyed out the window
at a faint trail of vapor.

                           FAITH
                     (over the roar of
                      the engine)
               Are you sure people are gonna be
               able to read this?...

The pilot nods.  The plane goes into a dive.  Faith's eyes
roll back in her head.

EXT. PENSION TERRACE - DAY

Kate and Giovanni are at a table, overlooking the domes of
the city, bathed in the honeyed late afternoon light.
Giovanni's pointing out the sights.  A plane buzzes overhead.
Kate looks up.  Some faint gibberish is being scattered to
the wind.  She shakes her head.  Giovanni takes her hand.

                           KATE
                     (a little
                      nervously)
               Don't you have to be getting back
               to work?

His eyes sparkle.

                           GIOVANNI
               It's siesta.

                           KATE
               Oh.

                           GIOVANNI
               You see, in America they care for
               work, they live to work.  But in
               Italy, they care for food, for
               love, for pleasure...

His lips graze her wrist.

                           KATE
               How old are you?

                           GIOVANNI
               What do the years matter?  I've
               known you for centuries...

INT. PENSION LOBBY - AFTERNOON

Faith enters.  Her hair looking like she stuck her finger in
a light socket.  She's handed an enormous stack of messages.
Peter, Peter, Peter, etc.  There are a lot of cross-outs.

She forces herself to drop them into the trash on her way up
the stairs.  Then opens her door and sees the flowers.  She
fingers one, momentarily softening, then turns resolute.  She
pulls her suitcase from beneath the bed and is unzipping it
when Kate enters, grinning from ear to ear.

                           KATE
               Hi-iii...

                           FAITH
               Hi.  Where've you been?

                           KATE
               Sightseeing...
                     (sobering as she
                      realizes)
               What're you doing?

                           FAITH
               Packing.

                           KATE
               Why?

                           FAITH
               Because I've been kidding myself.
               Because I realized you were right
               from the beginning.  This whole
               thing was just a wild goose chase.

                           KATE
               So, you've had a little bad luck.

                           FAITH
               A little bad luck?

                           KATE
               Okay, a lot of bad luck.  But that
               means the odds are probably in your
               favor now.  This is no time to give
               up.

Faith smiles wanly.  Starts pulling stuff out of drawers.

                           FAITH
               Why do they read kids fairy tales
               in the first place?  Children are
               very impressionable, you know.

                           KATE
               So you're just quitting?  Just like
               that?

Faith pauses.

                           FAITH
               I thought you were the one who
               didn't think I should've come in
               the first place.

                           KATE
               I know, but...

                           FAITH
               It was a ouija board, remember?

                           KATE
                     (softly)
               ...and a fortune teller.

                           FAITH
               Yeah, well, obviously it wasn't
               meant to be.  I've got forty-eight
               hours.  I can still make it home
               in time to marry Dwayne and try
               to forget any of this ever
               happened.

                           KATE
               What about Peter?...

                           FAITH
               Peter?  Peter was a mistake.  An
               imposter.

                           FAITH
               The last dead end in a long series
               of dead ends that I am relieved
               to finally be leaving behind.
                     (glancing up)
               May as well start packing, our
               cab's gonna be here in an hour.

                           KATE
               Who said I was going?

                           FAITH
               What?

                           KATE
               I'm just not ready to go home quite
               yet, that's all.

There's a tap at the door.  Giovanni pokes his head in.

                           GIOVANNI
               You ready, Kate?  Oh, hi, Faith.
               Did you do something different to
               your hair?

Kate shakes her head.

                           KATE
               He promised to take me on a tour
               of the fountains...
                     (beat)
               But I don't have to go.

Faith looks at the two of them.  Realizing.

                           FAITH
               No.  No, you go ahead.

                           KATE
               You sure you'll be okay?

                           FAITH
               I'm sure.  And Kate, thank you for
               coming.  Thank you for being such
               a good friend.

                           KATE
                     (squeezing her
                      hand)
               I'll be back before you leave.

She and Giovanni exit.  Faith picks up the telephone.

                           FAITH
               Long distance operator, please.

INT. DWAYNE'S APARTMENT - DAY

The phone rings.  The answering machine picks it up.

                           PHONE MACHINE
               "Hi, it's Dwayne.  Don't be a heel,
               leave a message."

Beep.

                           DAMON (O.S.)
               Hi, Dwayne.  It's me.  I'm just
               calling to say I'm on my way home.

INT. PENSION DIVINO AMORE - SUNSET

Faith's eyes drift to the window.

                           FAITH
               The situation here is looking
               pretty hopeless.  I guess she's
               given up.
                     (catching herself)
               So, it's Flight number 966.  It
               gets in at one tomorrow.  I'll see
               you then.

Click.

EXT. STREETS OF ROME - TWILIGHT

Faith is taking the same walk that was so magical the night
before.  But it's not the same.  She takes a few steps, tilts
her head back, and-- trips.  She's holding her foot in pain
when,

                           O.S.
               Kate told me you were going home.
               Is that true?

She looks up, sees Peter.  Turns around and starts limping
briskly back towards her hotel.

                           PETER
                     (tagging after her)
               Is it?

No response.

                           PETER
                     (realizing)
               You're limping.

                           FAITH
               I know I'm limping.  I stubbed my
               toe.

                           PETER
               Are you okay?  You want some help?

                           FAITH
               NO.

                           PETER
               You are leaving, aren't you?

No response.

                           PETER
               Why can't you just tell me?

                           FAITH
               If it's any of your business, yes.

                           PETER
               Yes?!  To be married, I suppose.

                           FAITH
               Yes.

                           PETER
               To the foot doctor.

                           FAITH
               Yes.

He stops in front of her.  Looks her straight in the eye.

                           PETER
               Why?

A long beat.

                           FAITH
                     (stepping around
                      him)
               Because I know who Dwayne is, and
               he's reliable and stable and wants
               to marry me.

                           PETER
                     (dismissingly)
               He's safe.

                           FAITH
               So?!  Is there something wrong with
               loving somebody who's safe?

                           PETER
                     (following her)
               Does he love you?

                           FAITH
               He wants to marry me, doesn't he?

                           PETER
               You didn't answer my question.

                           FAITH
                     (exasperated)
               Why are you asking me this?

                           PETER
               Because I'd like to think at least
               one of you feels that way.  Does
               he  know who you are?

He touches her arm.  She pulls it away.

                           PETER
                     (utterly serious)
               You stubbed your toe, don't you
               think that's a sign?

                           FAITH
               What?

                           PETER
               He's a podiatrist.  Pain is your
               body's way of telling you something
               is wrong.  Your toe is trying to
               tell you not to do it.

She rolls her eyes, continues limping.

                           PETER
               There must be something I can do,
               something I can say to make this
               up to you?...  Just tell me what
               it is, I'll say it.  I'll do it.
               I don't want you to hate me.

                           FAITH
                     (softening, she
                      stops)
               Look, Peter, I don't hate you.
               But what we had was an illusion.
               Mutual wishful thinking.  We both
               wanted to believe it for awhile,
               but it was all founded on a lie.

                           PETER
               So?

                           FAITH
               So it wasn't real.

                           PETER
               What about the oasis in the desert?
               Are you telling me that was a lie?

                           FAITH
               No, that wasn't a lie.  That was...
                     (almost more to
                      herself)
               a mirage.

She looks at him.  Then, softly, sadly,

                           FAITH
               Don't you see?..  We're not the
               ones who are meant to be.
                     (earnestly)
               You're the man of somebody else's
               dreams.

                           PETER
               Because I don't have the right
               name?!

She starts walking again.

                           FAITH
               I'm going home.  I never should've
               come here in the first place and
               I'm going home.

He calls after her.

                           PETER
               Fine.  Okay.  Forget me.  Leave
               me out of it.  But don't go
               throwing your life away on somebody
               you don't love.

                           FAITH
                     (she turns)
               Who says I don't love him?...

A long beat.

                           PETER
               I see.  Well then, go home.  Get
               married.  I hope you'll be very
               happy.

And he walks quickly away, disappearing into the shadows.
She starts to call after him, but he's already gone.

EXT. HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

Faith is waiting in the lobby as a CAB pulls up outside.  We
watch from a distance as she hugs Kate goodbye.  The DRIVER
comes in, picks up her bag, and she drags out the door behind
him.

INT. CAB - NIGHT

Faith is staring forlornly out the car window as the driver
gets in, turns over the engine.  They're pulling away when
SOMEONE runs out into the street, arms waving madly.

                           PETER
                     (running alongside
                      the window)
               You can't go.

The cab is speeding up.

                           FAITH
               Why not?

                           PETER
               Because.  I know where he is.

It SCREECHES to a halt.

                                             CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

Peter's helping her bring her things back inside.

                           PETER
                     (out of breath)
               I went back to that restaurant and
               I spoke with his waiter, just on
               an off chance, you know, and,
               anyway-- he knew the name of the
               guy's hotel.  So, I called there,
               they said he left yesterday.  But,
               apparently he comes here every
               year, always follows the same
               route.  He always goes from here
               down the coast to the Le Sirenuse
               hotel in Positano.  I called.  And
               they told me he's checked in.

                           FAITH
               Where's Positano?

                           PETER
               It's in the south.  I've still got
               my rental car.  I can get you there
               by morning...

                           FAITH
               Oh no, I don't think that would
               be a good idea.

                           PETER
               Look, I know there's no going back
               for us.  That's not it.  I just
               want to make this up to you.  Clear
               my relationship karma.  And I know
               the area, I've got some cousins
               down there.  Please.  Let me do
               this for you.  Let this be my gift
               to you.

She searches his eyes.

                           FAITH
               Why?

                           PETER
               Because-- I want you to be happy.

INT. DWAYNE'S APARTMENT - DAY

The answering machine is recording Faith's message.

                           DAMON (O.S.)
               Dwayne, you're still not there?...
               I was really hoping we could talk.
                           (more)

                           DAMON (Cont'd)
                     (beat)
               I wanted to tell you she's made
               an unexpected recovery, but she's
               a little confused and she needs
               me to stay here one more day.  Just
               to be sure.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

Kate's in the lobby.

                           KATE
               Peter found him?

                           FAITH
               Yes.  Isn't that amazing?

Kate looks over at him.  He shrugs.

                           KATE
               Amazing...

                           FAITH
               He's down in someplace called
               Positano.  Peter says we can make
               it there by morning.

As they head out the door, Peter turns quietly to Kate,

                           PETER
                     (relishing this)
               He's travelling with his mother...

EXT. ROAD - NIGHT

They speed down darkened the highway, Faith and Peter in the
front seat, Kate and Giovanni in the back.  The wind in their
hair.

                           PETER
               The guy at the hotel told me he
               always wears a gold medallion, and
               usually has a book or magazine with
               him.

                           FAITH
                     (to herself,
                      encouraged)
               He likes to read...
                     (to him)
               Did he mention anyone in
               particular?

Beat.

                           PETER
               Uh, I'd rather not say.

                           FAITH
               Tell me.

                           PETER
               I'd really rather not say.

                           FAITH
               Please.  I need to know.

                           PETER
                     (giving in)
               Mickey Spillane.

                           FAITH
                     (a little unnerved)
               Mickey Spillane?

                           PETER
               Or Hustler.

The car shoots down the road.

EXT. AMALFI COAST - DAWN

They drive past sheer cliffs dropping off to silvery rocks,
azure seas, transparent depths.  Around hairpin turns skirting
the Gulf of Salerno, before finally winding into the
impossibly beautiful seaside town of Positano.  An enchanted
land of steep hillsides overgrown with lemon trees, jasmine,
bouganvilla...  cliff hanging villas... emerald and sapphire
grottoes...  cerulean skies...  heaven on earth.

EXT. LE SIRENUSE HOTEL - DAY

Another "Lifestyles" hotel.  An elegant old villa perched
above the village and the deep blue sea.  The four of them
head for the desk, where Kate cheerfully plunks down Larry's
credit card.

                           KATE
               Joan Collins stayed here.

                           FAITH
                     (to concierge)
               Is Damon Bradley here?

                           CONCIERGE
               Si.  A la piscina.

He gestures towards the terrace.

                           PETER
               He's out by the pool right now.

                           FAITH
                     (nervously)
               Right now?

                           PETER
               Oh, and I forgot to tell you.  He's
               here with his mother.

She checks her hair, starts adjusting it in the reflection
of a window.  Then peeks around the corner.

ANGLE ON a MAN reclining on a lounge chair.  We start at the
feet which don't quite reach the end of the chair.  Move up
the legs, past the pot belly, to, sure enough, an enormous
gold medallion resting on his chest.  A fringe of hair skirts
the perimeter of his head -- and his back.

A copy of Mickey Spillane's latest rests on a table next to
him.  He's lying back, eyes closed.  This is Damon Bradley.
This is Him...

Peter smiles broadly.  Faith's face falls.

                           KATE
               That's him?!

Faith elbows her.

                           KATE
               That's the guy you've been waiting
               for all these years?

                           PETER
                     (eating this up)
               Aren't you gonna go introduce
               yourself?

                           FAITH
                     (not particularly
                      anxious to)
               Of course.

She doesn't move.

                           PETER
               Do you want me to do it?

                           FAITH
               NO.

She takes a good look.  Swallows hard.  Reluctantly
approaches.

                           FAITH
               Hi...

He doesn't look up.  She stands awkwardly over him, looking
back at Kate for support.

                           FAITH
               Uh-hem, excuse me, hello...

He cracks one eye, squints up at her.

                           MAN AT POOL
               You're in my sun.

                           FAITH
                     (hopping out of
                      the way)
               Oh.  Sorry.

He closes his eyes.

                           FAITH
               Pardon me, but...

He squints up again.

                           MAN AT POOL
               What?

Beat.

                           FAITH
                     (like an idiot)
               Do you have the time?

He eyeballs her like she's some sort of curious life form.

                           MAN AT POOL
               Do I look like I'm wearing a watch?

He doesn't.

                           FAITH
               No, I guess not.  I just thought
               maybe--

When someone at the edge of the pool calls out,

                           O.S.
               Hey, Damon.

But the person she's talking to doesn't respond.  Instead,
somebody else, another MAN who'd been doing laps in the pool,
emerges.

                           HIM
               Yeah?

This is no ordinary mortal, this is a living monument to
mankind.  He could've modeled for Michelangelo.  Mel Gibson
feels like Jo-Jo-the-Dog-Faced-Boy next to this guy.  The guys
in the Calvin Klein ads-- okay, let's say he looks like one
of those guys.

Kate's eyes shift to Peter, who suddenly sobers.

Back at the pool, a LITTLE KID is talking to Damon.

                           LITTLE KID
               Thanks for letting me borrow this.

The kid sets the Spillane tome back on his chair.

                           HIM
               No problem.

He gets out and starts toweling off, a halo of sunlight
glistening off his tanned, muscular body; reflecting in the
deep green pools of his eyes.  She grabs hold of a nearby
chair as her knees start to give way.

                           FAITH
                     (barely audible)
               You're Damon Bradley?

                           HIM
               Uh huh.

Oh. My. Goddd.

It's now or never.  She takes a deep breath.  Lets it out.

                           FAITH
               Excuse me.

It's never.  She goes running back inside.

                           KATE
                     (whispering loudly)
               Whatareyoudoing?!

                           FAITH
                     (spinelessly)
               What if he doesn't like me?

                           KATE
               It means you're a completely
               worthless excuse for a human being,
               and the fates have all conspired
               to make you miserable.

                           FAITH
               My God... you're right.

                           KATE
               Faith, I'm kidding.
                     (stopping her)
               Is this how you plan to get what
               you want from life?  When you
               finally find it, you turn and run
               away from it?

She gazes fearfully back out to the terrace.

                           PETER
               Hey, if she doesn't wanna meet him,
               she doesn't wanna meet him.

Kate glares at him.  Takes Faith by the shoulders.

                           KATE
               You have overcome everything it
               took to get here.  Every obstacle
               to reach this moment.  This fateful
               moment.  Now, it's in your hands.

She points toward the terrace.

                           KATE
               Is that what you want?

Is this a trick question?

                           KATE
               Then go get it.

EXT. POOL - MOMENTS LATER

He's picking up his things.

                           O.S.
               Hi again...

He looks up.

                           HIM
                     (perfectly
                      friendly)
               Hello.

                           FAITH
                     (nervously
                      fingering her
                      necklace)
               Beautiful place...

                           HIM
               Sure is.

A pause.

                           FAITH
               Been here long?

                           HIM
               Just since yesterday.

                           FAITH
               I just got here, too.  Not
               yesterday.  But, just now.  Today.
               Just a few minutes ago.
                     (looking around)
               Yeah, we just got here...  I mean,
               I just got here.  I'm single.

He looks at her.  Uh huh.

                           FAITH
                     (chickening out)
               Well, I'll probably be seeing you
               around, then.

She starts to skulk away.

                           HIM
                     (politely)
               I hope so.

She pauses, turns,

                           FAITH
               I was wondering...
                     (not looking at
                      him)
               Do you have dinner plans?

                           HIM
               Tonight?

                           FAITH
                     (her eyes
                      tentatively meet
                      his)
               Any night.

                           HIM
               Well, not exactly...

                           FAITH
               Would you be willing to have dinner
               with me?

A slow smile creeps across his lips.  Why not?

                           HIM
               Sure.

                           FAITH
                     (somehow
                      maintaining)
               You would?  Really?

He nods.

                           FAITH
               Okay.  Okay, how about I meet you
               at the restaurant at the base of
               the stairs at, say, 8:30?

A smile that would melt Nome in January,

                           HIM
               I'll look forward to it.

                           FAITH
                     (backing away)
               Okay.  Good.  See you then, then.

She's about to trip over a chaise lounge.

                           HIM
               Wait.

                           FAITH
               Yes?

                           HIM
               Aren't you going to tell me who
               you are?

                           FAITH
                     (stepping forward)
               Oh, Faith.  My name's Faith.

                           HIM
                     (extending a hand)
               It's a pleasure to meet you, Faith.

He takes her hand.  Kisses it.  Peter rolls his eyes.

She turns around and dashes back inside.  We hear an
ear-splitting SHRIEK of excitement come from inside the hotel.
Damon smiles to himself.

EXT. POSITANO - DAY

The jet-setters have Sardinia, this is a resort with bohemian
roots and small town charm.  A barber sets his chair in the
street outside his shop.  A workman is polishing the bronze
mermaid out in front of "Siren Travel".

"Two Gentlemen from Verona" is being performed at the
community theatre.  Housewives open shutters, shopkeepers
sweep storefronts of fruit stands, pottery and linen shops.
Men carry armloads of flowers, boxes of lemons and gleaming
fish to market.  Children play at the edge of the sea.
Mayberry in Italy.

Kate and Giovanni are down at the beach, frolicking in the
water.

And Faith is strolling through town, floating on air.  She
spots a dress in a clothing store window.

INT. CLOTHING SHOP - DAY

Faith emerges from a dressing room in something summery and
flowing.  She looks beautiful.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

INT. HOTEL ROOM - SUNSET

A jar of green goo.  Faith's plastering one of those green
clay masks to her face.  Her dress is hanging on the door.
She's got rollers in her hair.  She and Kate are getting ready
for dinner.

                           FAITH
               Did you see his eyes?  I've never
               seen eyes that green.  And he was
               so nice.  Did you see how nice he
               was?  He was really nice.

There's a KNOCK at the door.  She freezes.

                           KATE
               I thought you were meeting him
               there?

Panicking, Faith dashes to the bathroom, starts frantically
rinsing off the mask.

                           FAITH
               That's what I thought.

Kate opens the door.  It's Peter.

                           KATE
               Oh, it's you.
                     (to Faith)
               It's only Peter.

                           PETER
               Thanks.

                           KATE
               Sorry...

Relieved, Faith steps out from behind the bathroom door, still
wiping green stuff off her face.

                           FAITH
               Hi, Peter.

                           PETER
               Hi.

An awkward beat.

                           FAITH
               Come on in.

He does.

                           PETER
               So.  You found him.

                           FAITH
               You found him.  I don't know how
               to thank you.

He shrugs.

                           PETER
               Well, it looks like we both lucked
               out.  I just met somebody myself.
               Somebody my aunt introduced me to.

                           FAITH
                     (a little
                      surprised)
               Oh.  That's nice.

                           PETER
               Yeah.

Beat.

                           PETER
               And she's a knock-out, too.

                           FAITH
               Well, good.  Good for you.

                           PETER
               Anyway, that's why I came by.  I
               need to fix this button.  Do you
               have a needle and thread?

This is pretty transparent, but she politely plays along.
As she starts looking through her stuff, he starts idly
fingering their toiletries.  Smells her perfume, etc.

                           PETER
               So, you're going to dinner?

She nods.

                           PETER
               Where are you going?  Just-- out
               of curiosity...

                           FAITH
               Just to that place down at the
               bottom of the stairs.  Nothing
               fancy.

She hands him the needle and thread.

                           PETER
               Oh, thanks.
                     (really trying)
               Well, have a good time.

                           FAITH
                     (heartfelt)
               You too.

As he exits,

                           PETER
               Hey--

                           FAITH
               What?

                           PETER
               Nice dress.

                           FAITH
                     (gracious and
                      indebted)
               Thank you, Peter.  Thank you so
               much.

He nods and leaves.  She looks at Kate.

Faith emerges from her room and starts down the steep hillside
stairs that lead to the village.  Lights along the shore are
beginning to glitter; a warm breeze flows in like silk.  It's
the sort of moment and sort of place where all dreams seem
within reach.

Down below she can see him waiting for her outside the
restaurant door.  She pauses a moment to take it all in.  He
looks up and sees her.  Blows a kiss up to her.  She
practically swoons.

As she arrives at the foot of the stairs, he takes her hand,

                           HIM
               You look like a goddess.

INT. BUCA DI BACCO RESTAURANT - TWILIGHT

A open-air place, overlooking the sea.  Waves crash.
Moonlight glistens on the water.  Guitarists stroll by,
singing sentimental Neopolitan ballads.  It's all almost too
good to be true.  They're led to a table and he pulls out her
chair.  The perfect gentleman.  A WAITER comes over to welcome
them.  Asks if they'd like a drink.

                           HIM
                     (to Faith)
               Wine?

She's a little giddy.

                           FAITH
               Sure.

                           HIM
                     (to the waiter)
               Brunello di Montalcino, '85,
               please.

Back to her.

                           HIM
                     (leaning forward)
               You know, I noticed you out at the
               pool even before we spoke.  I could
               sense the chemistry between us.

                           FAITH
                     (a little
                      flustered)
               Really?

                           HIM
                     (bedroom eyes)
               Really...

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

The WAITER arrives with the wine.  Pours.  She raises a glass.

                           FAITH
               Well, to-- new friends.

                           HIM
               And more...

They toast.

                           FAITH
               So, I guess you're probably
               wondering why I asked you to
               dinner...

He sets down his glass.

                           HIM
               Not really.  Happens to me all the
               time.

An awkward laugh.  It probably does.  Damon picks up his menu,
scans the prices.

                           HIM
               Well, fuck me.

She must be hearing things.

                           FAITH
               Excuse me?

                           HIM
               Nothing.
                     (clearing his
                      throat)
               Prices are a little steep here,
               aren't they?

                           FAITH
               Don't worry about it.  You're my
               guest.

She picks up her menu.

                           FAITH
               What looks good?

                           HIM
                     (perusing it)
               Hmmmm... Well, the scampi sounds
               good...

                           FAITH
               You like shrimp?  I like shrimp.

Small world.

They're still pondering their options when another COUPLE
stroll in and are led to the table directly next to theirs.
It's Peter and his date, FRANCESCA.  And this time he was
telling the truth.  She's stunning.  All suntanned legs and
skintight spandex.  Beaming, he pulls out her chair.  Faith
just stares at him.  As he moves around the table to sit down,
his eye catches hers.

                           PETER
                     (sotto)
               What?...

                           FAITH
                     (hissing)
               What are you doing here?

                           PETER
               We were hungry.

She turns her back on him.

                           HIM
                     (looking up from
                      his menu)
               So what do you think?

                           FAITH
                     (distracted)
               Uh, the scampi sounds good to me,
               too.

                           O.S.
               Damon.  There you are.

An ELEPHANT OF A WOMAN approaches, Damon waves her over.

                           HIM
                     (to Faith)
               I didn't think you'd mind...

She proceeds to plant herself at their table.

                           HIM
               Faith, this is my mother.

                           FAITH
               Oh, hello.

                           HIM
               Mommy, this is Faith.

Trying to conceal her surprise, Faith politely extends a hand.

                           FAITH
               Nice to meet you, Mrs. Bradley.

Peter drops his napkin, leans over towards Faith to retrieve
it,

                           PETER
                     (whispering into
                      her ear)
               "Mommy"?

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

LATER.  Their food has arrived.  Francesca is rubbing Peter's
leg under the table.  Faith is trying to ignore this.

                           FAITH
               So, you say you've been to Italy
               before?

                           HIM
               A few times.  It's kind of an
               annual tradi--

                           PETER
                     (to Damon)
               Pardon me, but could we borrow your
               salt?

Faith glares at him.

                           HIM
               Sure.

He hands it over.

                           FAITH
               You were saying...

                           PETER
                     (to Damon)
               Boy, that looks tasty.  What is
               that?

                           HIM
                     (chewing)
               Scampi.

                           DAMON'S MOTHER
               Damon.  Not with your mouth full.

                           PETER
               Scampi, huh?  I love scampi.  I
               practically always get it in these
               seafood places.  Is that good
               scampi?

Damon nods.  Swallows.

                           HIM
               You want to try some?

                           PETER
                     (pleased with
                      himself)
               Sure.  I'll trade you some of my
               pasta.

They start cheerily exchanging portions.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

LATER STILL.  The candles have burnt low.  The plates are
being cleared.  Francesca and Peter are feeding each other
dessert.  Giggling.  Damon snaps his fingers at a waiter.

                           HIM
               El checko, por favor.

Annoyed, the WAITER totals up their tab and starts to hand
it to him.  Damon motions towards Faith.  She takes it, starts
pulling out lire as he and his mother get up.

                           PETER
               Say, I saw where they had motor
               boats for rent down in the harbor.
               Why don't we all go for an evening
               cruise around the bay?

                           FAITH
               I don't know if that's such a--

                           DAMON AND HIS MOTHER
                     (in unison)
               Great idea!

Faith is still counting as Damon and his mother, Peter and
Francesca all head for the door.  She finally finishes,
hurries to her feet to catch up with Peter,

                           FAITH
                     (at his side)
               Why are you doing this?

                           PETER
               I just wanted to keep an eye on
               you.  The guy's a total stranger,
               remember?

                           FAITH
               So were you.

                           PETER
               Exactly.
                     (beat)
               Besides, no hard feelings.  You
               found somebody.  I found somebody.
               I thought we could double.

EXT. HOTEL ROOM TERRACE - EVENING

Kate and Giovanni are dining outside on the vine-covered
terrace.

                           GIOVANNI
               This is back when I was in school,
               you take those tests, you know?
               They said I should go into physical
               therapy.
                     (he takes a bite)
               Or wood-working.

She looks confused.

                           GIOVANNI
                     (simply)
               I'm good with my hands.

The phone RINGS.

                           KATE
               Hold that thought.

Kate goes inside to pick it up.

                           KATE
               Hello?

EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Faith at a pay phone outside the restaurant.

                           FAITH
               Kate.  Thank God you're there.
               I need help.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

                           KATE
               Uh huh...  Okay, we'll be there.
               How is he, anyway?

EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Faith glances over at Damon -- as he pinches a woman walking
by.

                           FAITH
               It's still a little too early to
               say...

EXT. A BOAT IN THE TYRRHENIAN SEA - NIGHT

Kate and Giovanni are here.  Damon's mother is in the corner.
Snoring.  Damon is pontificating on global policy to Peter.

                           HIM
               Irregardless of the politics.  It's
               time we stopped dicking around.
               I'm telling you, nuculear is the
               only way out.

                           PETER
               But don't you think that's a little
               short-sighted?

                           KATE
                     (sotto, to Faith)
               Not only is he a momma's boy and
               a fascist, he says "nuculear" and
               "irregardless".

                           FAITH
               No one's perfect, Kate.

                           KATE
               And he is living proof.

                           FAITH
               No, I think maybe you've been
               right.  I think I may have been
               too critical in the past.

Damon BELCHES loudly.

                           KATE
               Faith, if I may say so, you picked
               a helluva time to come to this
               realization.

                           HIM (O.S.)
               Human rights, shmuman rights.

                           FAITH
                     (hope springs
                      eternal)
               Maybe I can change him.

                           KATE
               I thought this was supposed to be
               the one guy in the world you
               wouldn't need to change.

They stare over at him.

                           FAITH
               Maybe if I kiss him I'll feel it.

                           KATE
               Or maybe it'll turn him back into
               a toad.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

LATER.  Francesca is idly running her fingers through Peter's
hair.

                           FAITH
               Well, what about books?  You like
               Hemingway?  You gotta love
               Hemingway.

                           PETER
               The Sun Also Rises.  For Whom the
               Bell Tolls.  The Old Man and the--

                           HIM
               He's alright.  For a closet homo.

Faith's jaw muscles tighten slightly as she tries to take this
in stride.

                           FAITH
               How about music?  You like
               classical?

                           PETER
               The Boston Pops.  Season tickets.

Damon yawns.

                           FAITH
               Well, how about those old romantic
               movies with those great stars, huh?
               Like Audrey Hepburn.

                           PETER
               Actually, I think I prefer
               Katherine Hepburn.

                           HIM
               Audrey was cool.

Finally.  She smiles.  Damon SPITS noisily over the side.

                           HIM
               Too bad she didn't have any tits.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

Kate is listing things.  Faith and Damon are nodding their
heads, yes and no.  Never in unison.

                           KATE
               Baseball.  Carmelcorn.  Organized
               religion.  Sting.  Grape-flavored
               candy.  The Marx Brothers.  Long
               foreplay.  Gardening.  Drum solos.
               Dogs.  Mai tais.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

Kate, checking her list.

                           KATE
               Amazing.  With the exception of
               fruitcake, which, let's be honest,
               everybody hates,
                     (looks up)
               you two have absolutely nothing
               whatsoever in common.
                     (re-checking her
                      list)
               That's got to be almost
               statistically impossible.

Francesca and Peter are up towards the bow of the boat,
cavorting, hanging on each other.  Faith is facing them, with
her back to Damon.

                           FAITH
                     (not wanting to
                      look)
               What's he doing now?

Kate peers over her shoulder.

                           KATE
               He's tearing the wings off a moth
               and making it walk around.

Faith buries her head in her hands.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

Faith is standing at the railing alone, gazing out at the open
ocean.  When she feels someone sidling up next to her.

                           HIM
               So, what are we waiting for?

                           FAITH
               What?

                           HIM
               Let's face it.  You want me.

He places a hand on her breast.  She lets out a blood-curdling
SCREAM.  Peter comes running to her rescue.  Hauls off and
decks him.

EXT. DOCK - NIGHT

Peter and Giovanni are forcibly dragging Damon off the boat,
down the dock.  Still onboard, she and Kate watch them go,
in a daze.

                           FAITH
                     (numbly)
               He's a jerk.

                           KATE
               Yes.  He is.

                           FAITH
               I spent my whole life waiting for
               a creep.

                           KATE
               Yup.

                           FAITH
               I came all the way to Italy in
               search of a weasel.

                           KATE
                     (still watching
                      them go)
               When you could've found one in
               America.

Francesca steps past them off the boat.

                           FRANCESCA
               Do not feel bad.  He was scum.

EXT. LANDING - NIGHT

After the men are out of earshot, we see Peter pull this guy
aside.  And surreptitiously hand him an envelope.

                           HIM
               You didn't think that last bit with
               the bugs was a little over the top?

                           PETER
               Not at all.  You were perfect.

Handing him another envelope.

                           PETER
               And thank Mrs. Walker, too.

EXT. BOAT - MOMENTS LATER

Faith and Kate are still there, unloading a groggy Mrs.
Bradley.   She goes tottering down the dock, as Peter returns.

                           PETER
               You okay?

                           FAITH
               Yeah.

                           PETER
                     (sympathetically)
               I guess he turned out to be kind
               of a loser, huh?

She sighs, nods.

                           PETER
               I'm sorry.

                           FAITH
               I feel like the world's biggest
               idiot.

He finishes securing the boat.

                           PETER
               Why should you be embarrassed?
               He was the jerk.

She doesn't believe this, but appreciates the gesture.

                           FAITH
               In spite of the way it all turned
               out, though, I want you to know
               how much I appreciate your helping
               me find him.  I would always have
               wondered what might have been.

He pauses.

                           PETER
               Yeah.
                     (then)
               Well, was the least I could do.

                           FAITH
               No, it was more than that.  It was
               very generous of you.  It was very
               kind.

His eyes meet hers.  From the landing, Francesca calls after
him impatiently.

                           PETER
                     (reluctantly)
               I better go.

Faith's eyes shift between the two of them.

                           FAITH
               Sure.  I understand.

He touches her shoulder.

                           PETER
               Promise me you won't leave without
               saying goodbye.

                           FAITH
               No.  Course not.

And with that, he gets up, steps off the boat and heads down
the pier with Francesca clinging to him.  She watches them
walk away.

                           KATE
               So...

                           FAITH
               So.  I guess I've got a wedding
               to go to.

Faith steps off the boat and walks down the pier, a solitary
figure, who finally disappears in the mist.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Faith is packing.  She picks up her "Let's Go Italy" guide,
and the polaroid of her and Peter falls out.  "The Kiss".
She sighs.  Tucks it back inside the book.  She picks up her
wallet, opens the coin purse, reaches in to pull out her
ENGAGEMENT RING.  As she does, something else falls to the
floor.  Dwayne's DRY CLEANING TICKET.  She stares down at it.
Then takes the ring, places it back in her wallet.  And picks
up the telephone.

INT. HER MOTHER'S HOME - DAY

Her mother is sobbing hysterically.  Larry is there.  Dwayne
is there.  Leslie is there.  Leslie's eyes meet Dwayne's
meaningfully.

EXT. BOAT - NIGHT

Kate and Giovanni are walking down the pier, hand in hand.
He stops her, leans her up against the railing, and plants
a massive kiss on her.  After she's managed to catch her
breath,

                           KATE
               Giovanni, I want to thank you.

                           GIOVANNI
               I thank you.

He goes to kiss her again.

                           KATE
               No, you don't understand.  It's
               been wonderful meeting you.  But...
               I have a husband.  I have two kids
               at camp.  I have a life I have to
               go back to.

                           GIOVANNI
               You don't have to go if you don't
               want to...

                           KATE
               But I do want to.

He realizes where this isn't going.  Tries another tack.

                           GIOVANNI
                     (hurt)
               You think I'm just one of those
               Italian Casanovas.  The guys who
               try to seduce every woman who comes
               their way.  Who prey on unhappily
               married women.  Who lure
               unsuspecting--

                           KATE
               Giovanni.

                           GIOVANNI
               Huh?

                           KATE
               That's exactly what you are.

Beat.

                           GIOVANNI
               Is it that obvious?

She smiles.

                           KATE
               Thank you for making me feel
               wanted.

She turns, and heads up the stairs.  Alone.  After a beat,

                           GIOVANNI
               Kate.

She looks back down,

                           GIOVANNI
               It was my pleasure.

And he starts down the street.  Passes an outdoor cafe.  With
an attractive woman in it.  ANGLE ON the WOMAN.

                           O.S.
               Do you believe in love at first
               sight?...

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Faith is in bed.  In the darkness.  The door opens.

                           FAITH
               Kate is that you?

                           KATE
               Uh huh.

                           FAITH
               I didn't expect you back so soon.

Kate closes the door.

                           KATE
               Well, I realized, if you're getting
               married, you're gonna be needing
               the maid of honor, right?

                           FAITH
               Actually, no.  There's not going
               to be a wedding.

                           KATE
               Oh.

Beat.

                           KATE
               Well... I ought to be getting home
               anyway.  The kids'll be back from
               camp soon.  The house is probably
               a mess.

                           FAITH
               And Larry?...

                           KATE
               What about Larry?

                           FAITH
               I don't know.  I've just been
               thinking... maybe this destiny
               thing is more of a do-it-yourself
               operation.  Maybe the things that
               are meant to be are the things we
               want badly enough to fight for.

The room is quiet.  You can hear the waves in the distance.

                           KATE
               Maybe...

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. HOTEL ROOM - DAWN

It's a glorious morning.  Birds chirp.  The sea shimmers in
the distance.  Faith is standing outside a hotel room door.
She takes a deep breath.  Knocks.  It opens.  Peter.

                           PETER
               Hi.

                           FAITH
               Hi.  Are you... busy?

                           PETER
               No.
                     (beat)
               Are you're leaving?

                           FAITH
               No.  I just came by to apologize.

He looks at her questioningly.

                           FAITH
               It seems like ever since I found
               out about this guy, this name, I've
               been kind of crazy.  Like I was
               on drugs or something.

                           PETER
               I know the feeling.

                           FAITH
               Yeah...  Well, anyway, I also
               wanted to tell you, I'm not getting
               married.

                           PETER
               You aren't?

                           FAITH
               No.  I mean yes, I'm not.  I
               decided to call it off.  Well,
               actually, it was kind of mutual.

                           PETER
               Well.  Congratulations.

                           FAITH
               Thank you.
                     (beat)
               So, since I have a few more days
               of vacation left, I was wondering
               if maybe you'd want to do something
               sometime.  I mean, you know, if
               you don't have... other plans.

                           PETER
               Are you asking me out?

Beat.

                           FAITH
               Yes.  I am.

                           PETER
                     (gently)
               In that case... no...

She looks down at the ground.  Nods.

                           PETER
               I don't have other plans.

She looks back up.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

Kate goes to the desk for her key.  The concierge hands it
to her, along with something else.  An envelope.

                           KATE
               What's this?

                           CONCIERGE
               From an admirer...

She hesitantly opens it.  Inside is a college catalogue.  A
note:  "Please turn to page 51".  Puzzled, she opens it to
page 51.  The Sociology section.  A class is circled:
"Trans-gender Modes of Communication in Post-Modern Society".
And another note in the margin: "You want to take it with me?"
LARRY steps into view from around a corner.  She looks up.
Tears in her eyes.

EXT. THE STEPS - DAY

Peter and Faith are overlooking the sea, towards Capri.

                           PETER
               You can't come to Southern Italy
               and not see the Blue Grotto.

                           FAITH
               I just need to run up and get my
               bathing suit.

                           PETER
               Okay.  I'll meet you at the dock
               in ten minutes.

As she dashes off,

                           PETER
               Hurry...

EXT. POSITANO VILLAGE - DAY

Faith is on her way back to her room.  She passes the
community playhouse where two teenage kids are up on ladders,
suspending a banner across the stairs announcing a new play:
"The Odyssey".   One kid accidentally drops his end, and it
goes fluttering down across her path.  Faith stops to retrieve
it and is handing it back up to him when she glances at the
window where the eight-by-tens of the play's stars are being
changed.  The new star of the show is noneother than Damon
Bradley.  Only his name isn't Damon Bradley.  It's LEONARD
GILINSKY.  She stares at the photo.  And suddenly has trouble
breathing.

EXT. DOCK - DAY

Peter is waiting at the dock.  Checks his watch.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Faith is packing.  Furiously hurling stuff into a suitcase.
Peter shows up at the door.

                           PETER
               Is something the matter?

                           FAITH
               GET OUT!!

Backing behind it,

                           PETER
                     (sotto)
               I'd call that a yes.
                     (peeking around
                      the corner)
               Do I get a hint?

                           FAITH
               You want a hint?  I'll give you
               a hint.  You are the lowest, most
               despicable, most reprehensible form
               of reptilian swine--

                           PETER
               There's no such thing.

                           FAITH
               What?

                           PETER
               Reptilian swine.  There's no such
               thing.  Reptiles aren't swine.

                           FAITH
               Who cares?!  You hired an actor??

                           PETER
               I don't know what you're talking
               about.
                     (a nervous beat)
               Who told you that?

                           FAITH
               No one had to tell me.  He's
               starring in the local play.

A bead of sweat rolls down his neck.

                           FAITH
               You did, didn't you?  You got
               somebody to pretend to be him?
               Tell me the truth.  For once.

He takes a deep breath.

                           PETER
               Alright.  The truth is... I thought
               we had something here.

                           FAITH
               I can't believe you did that!

                           PETER
               And I can't believe you are so
               stubborn and so blind as to let
               some stranger, some phantom you've
               never even met destroy it.

                           FAITH
                     (turning on him)
               You're the reason I never met him.
               You knew it was the thing I most
               wanted in life and you sabotaged
               it.

                           PETER
               I sabotaged it?  You're the one
               who lost him, remember?

                           FAITH
               Well, I might've found him again
               if I hadn't left Rome to make this
               pointless trip down here with you.

                           PETER
               As I recall, you were on your way
               home.  And I didn't want you to
               go so, yes, I told you a little
               white lie.

                           FAITH
               A "little white lie"?  A "little
               white lie"?

                           PETER
               What would you call it?

                           FAITH
               I would call it-- unforgivable.

Silence.

                           PETER
               Don't you think you're overreacting
               just a little here?   We're talking
               about love, okay?  Let's be
               rational.

                           FAITH
               Rational?!  Love is not rational!
               Are you crazy?

                           PETER
                     (throwing up his
                      hands)
               Yes.  I'm crazy.  You have driven
               me crazy.  No one in their right
               mind would go to this much trouble
               to win over someone as insane as
               you.  Did it ever, even for one
               second, occur to you how much work
               it was to set all this up?  How
               many arrangements had to be made?
               How many players had to be
               coordinated?

                           FAITH
               Gee, I'm flattered.  What an
               incredibly romantic gesture.
               Cancel the roses, I've decided to
               lie to her instead.

                           PETER
               Very funny.

                           FAITH
               No, it isn't.  I called off my
               wedding all because of you.

A beat.

                           PETER
                     (touched)
               Really?...

                           FAITH
                     (realizing this
                      herself for the
                      first time)
               Yes.

Then,

                           PETER
               And this is the thanks I get.  I
               did you a favor.  You never wanted
               to marry that joker in the first
               place.

                           FAITH
               That's not the point.
                     (realizing she's
                      just given herself
                      away)
               And what if I had wanted to?

                           PETER
               If you had wanted to, you'd have
               gone home.

Then, more calmly,

                           PETER
               Look, I just thought if you finally
               got rid of this obsession with this
               name, if you could get it out of
               your system once and for all, then
               maybe you'd be able to stop waiting
               and open your heart to someone
               real.  Granted, ideally, me.  I
               didn't do it to hurt you.  I did
               it for you.
                     (beat)
               I did it for us...

                           FAITH
               There is no us.

His eyes harden.

                           PETER
               Oh, that's right.  There's only
               him.  Mr. Perfect Imaginary Man.
               You know, I gave you more credit
               than you deserved.  The truth is,
               you're in love with the fantasy.
               You're afraid of something real.

And he storms out the door.

EXT. HOTEL RESTAURANT - DAY

CLOSE ON a pile of cornball souvenirs.  A little gondola.
A little colosseum.  The little liqueur bottles.

Kate and Larry are at a table.  She's been collecting things
for him all along the way.

                           LARRY
               Are you kidding?  All that stuff
               was for you, Kate.  It just seemed
               like you were mad at me, so I
               thought maybe if I-- I hate Polo...

Kate smiles.  In love with him all over again.

                           LARRY
               There's just one thing I still
               don't understand.

She looks at him.

                           LARRY
               I don't have a great aunt in Italy.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

Peter, carrying his suitcase, turns in his key to the
concierge. Signs his bill.  And resignedly exits out the door.

ANGLE on the mermaid out in front of "SIREN TRAVEL".  Inside,
Faith is waiting in line.  She steps up to the window.  On
the other side of the counter is Damon.  That is, is Leonard.

                           FAITH
               You...

                           LEONARD
                     (a little uneasy)
               Hi there...

                           FAITH
               Before you start picking your nose,
               I know he put you up to it.

He looks disappointed.

                           LEONARD
               It was the moth stuff that gave
               it away, didn't it?
                     (to himself)
               I knew that was too much.

                           FAITH
               No, you gave a very convincing
               performance.  And you'll be pleased
               to know that your eight-by-ten
               glossy is now on display at the
               local playhouse.

                           LEONARD
               My picture's up?

He conveys this to a co-worker in Italian.  They exchange
high-fives.

                           FAITH
                     (glumly)
               Congratulations.

                           LEONARD
               Thanks.

                           FAITH
               So, this is what you do?  I mean
               when you're not playing other
               parts?

                           LEONARD
               I take it things didn't work out
               between the two of you?

She shakes her head.

                           LEONARD
               That's a shame.

She shrugs.  Heh.

                           FAITH
               Yeah, well... Anyway, I'm here to
               pick up my ticket.  TWA, Flight
               877.

He starts punching it into his computer.

                           LEONARD
               Is this your first trip here?

She nods.

                           LEONARD
               It's an amazing place, don't you
               think?

                           FAITH
               Amazing.

                           LEONARD
               Smoking or non-smoking?

                           FAITH
               Non.
                     (beat)
               Please.

He nods.

                           LEONARD
               Lots of history.  For example, did
               you know, according to legend, this
               coastline used to harbor Sirens?

                           FAITH
               Hm.

                           LEONARD
               Beautiful women who could lure men
               to their destruction with their
               singing.  Nobody's ever really seen
               them and lived to tell about it.
               But, I don't know.  An awful lot
               of ships wrecked on those rocks.

He shrugs.  Hands her her ticket.

                           LEONARD
               Well.  Have a good trip.

She nods.  Distant.  And we stay on her face.

INT. CAR - DAY

Peter places his suitcase in the car.  Gets in.  Tosses
something out the window.  A dead gardenia.

INT. HOTEL RESTAURANT - DAY

Kate and Larry.  Larry starts choking on his Campari.

                           LARRY
               Damon Bradley?  That's why you're
               here?

                           KATE
               What?  You know him?

                           LARRY
                     (chuckling
                      nervously)
               It was just a joke.  I was pushing
               the arrow.  I wanted to get to the
               next question.  I wanted to find
               out who was gonna win the Series.

                           KATE
               Are you saying you just made the
               whole thing up?  The guy never even
               existed?

                           LARRY
               He existed.  He was some kid I knew
               from Little League.
                     (musing)
               He was a real jerk.
                     (he looks up at
                      her)
               You say he's a friend of Dwayne's?

                           KATE
                     (nodding)
               Went to high school with him.
               But...

                           KATE
               what about the fortune teller?

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. CARNIVAL NIGHT - NIGHT

Twenty years ago.  A young Faith is sitting across from the
fortune teller.  There's a pounding at the back door.

This time we stay with Madame Divina, following her as she
gets up, marches to the back of the booth and throws open the
door.  Standing there is Larry.  He whispers something in her
ear as he hands her a five dollar bill.

                           LARRY (V.O.)
               I thought she'd get a kick out of
               it.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

INT. HOTEL RESTAURANT - DAY

                           LARRY
               It was a harmless little prank.
               Who in the world would've thought
               she'd spend her life waiting for
               this guy?

                           KATE
               Larry, you've got to tell her.

                           LARRY
               I can't tell her.  She's called
               off her wedding.  She'll never
               speak to me again.

He looks up pleadingly.

                           LARRY
               You tell her.

Faith bounding up the steps.  She races to Peter's room.
Pounds on the door.  No answer.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

Faith dashes to the desk, runs into Kate and Larry.

                           FAITH
               Larry!  What are you doing here?
                     (realizing)
               Mom sent you.

                           LARRY
               No.

He puts an arm around Kate.

                           LARRY
               I came after the woman I love.

                           KATE
               He missed me.

Faith smiles.  He puts his other arm around her.

                           LARRY
               The two women I love.  How are you,
               Faith?

She's a little surprised by this outpouring of affection.

                           FAITH
               I'm fine.
                     (to Kate)
               Have you seen Peter?

                           KATE
               He's gone.  He told me what
               happened.  He just left for the
               airport.

                           FAITH
               Larry, did you rent a car?

                           LARRY
               Yeah--

                           KATE
               Faith.  Larry has something he
               wants to tell you about Damon
               Bradley.

Larry is violently shaking his head "no".  Kate jabs him.

                           KATE
               I'll leave you two alone.

She exits the room.  Stranding him.

                           FAITH
               Larry, can I borrow your car keys?

                           LARRY
               Faith, this guy you think is Mr.
               Right, he's... not what you think--

                           FAITH
               Don't worry, it's a long story,
               but I know who he is.  I know where
               to find him.

                           LARRY
               But, Faith--

                           FAITH
               Please, Larry.  I have to hurry.

She spots the keys lying on the table.  Grabs them, bolts for
the door.

                           FAITH
               I'll bring it back as soon as I
               can.

                           LARRY
                     (calling after her)
               But Faith--

                           FAITH
               What?...

Beat.

                           LARRY
                     (chickening out)
               It's the red Fiat.

INT. HOTEL - MOMENTS LATER

Kate and Faith's room.

                           KATE
               She what?!

                           LARRY
               She said she knew where to find
               him, and then she grabbed my car
               keys, and--

                           KATE
               And you didn't tell her?

                           LARRY
               She didn't give me a chance.

Kate pins him with her eyes.

                           LARRY
               Well, you never know...
                     (lamely)
               Maybe they'll hit it off...

EXT. DRIVEWAY OF THE LE SIRENUSE HOTEL - MOMENTS LATER

Kate is yanking Larry into a taxi.

                           LARRY
               What do you mean we have to stop
               her before she does something
               crazy?

EXT. AMALFI DRIVE - DAY

Faith goes screeching around a curve.  A few beats later, the
TAXI follows.

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. STREETS OF ROME - DAY

Faith speeds through the tangled web of Roman traffic.  Kate
and Larry in close pursuit.

EXT. ROME AIRPORT - DAY

Faith screeches to a halt in the passenger loading zone.
Dashes inside.  Scans the DEPARTURE SCREEN for a flight to
BOSTON.  Finds it: AMERICAN AIRLINES, GATE NUMBER 7, "ON
TIME", at 5:00.  She checks her watch.  It's 4:57.  She starts
racing down the corridor.

INT. JET - DAY

Aboard the plane, Peter is settling into his seat.

INT. AIRPORT CORRIDOR - DAY

A vending machine.  SOMEBODY at it with his back to us pushes
the Butterfinger button.  The "SOLD OUT" light blinks on.
A FIST starts banging on machine.  Faith sprints by.
Oblivious.

INT. GATE 7 - DAY

Faith rushes to GATE #7.  Slaps something down on the desk
in front of the CLERK.

                           FAITH
               Boarding pass.

Blows past him.  He sticks out an arm.

                           CLERK
               I'm afraid you're too late, m'am.

She stops.  Breathing hard.  Uncomprehending.  He looks at
the pass.

                           CLERK
               And this isn't for this airline,
               either.

Faith turns to the window to see the portable stairs once
again being pulled away from the cabin door.  Deja vu.  She
notices a side door.  Only this time there are MEN with
MACHINE GUNS standing guard directly outside it.  This, after
all, is Rome.

With her hands pressed plaintively against the glass, she
watches as the plane taxis away from the gate toward the
runway, to join the LINE-UP of other PLANES waiting for
take-off clearance.  This jet, which we'll call "Peter's" jet,
is fifth in line.

INT. AIRPORT TERMINAL ENTRANCE - DAY

Kate and Larry come barrelling in.

INT. AIRPORT GIFT SHOP - DAY

Faith is buying one of those little portable Igloo ICE CHESTS.
With an "I    Italy" logo.  And an enormous roll of MASKING
TAPE.

A JET takes off.  Peter's jet moves up a notch.  Three to go.

INT. GATE NUMBER 7 - DAY

CLOSE ON the ICE CHEST.  With a lot of tape wrapped around
it.  And large lettering, "MEDICAL EMERGENCY" "DO NOT OPEN."
And a little red cross.  It looks pretty tacky.

                           O.S.
               A heart transplant?!

                           FAITH
               That's right.  She's been waiting
               a long time.

The clerk picks up the ice chest, starts trying to examine
it.  Faith stops him.

                           FAITH
               I'm afraid I can't let you do that.
               Hearts are very fragile.

Somebody else comes up.  A SECURITY GUARD.  He and the clerk
start conversing Italian.

OUT THE WINDOW --

Faith sees another jet take off.  Two to go.

INSIDE --

Faith is anxiously looking from one authority to the to other,
vainly trying to follow their conversation.  Finally the guard
turns to her,

                           CARABINIERE
               Who are you?

                           FAITH
               I'm the cardiologist.

The Clerk eyes the ice chest suspiciously.

                           CLERK
               You didn't have that with you
               before.
                     (to the guard,
                      pointing to the
                      chest)
               Prima non l'aveva con se.

                           FAITH
               It was late in arriving.
                     (with import)
               But it's here now.

                           CARABINIERE
               Do you have any I.D.?

                           FAITH
               Look, I've given you my credit
               card, my passport number.  I've
               paid for the flight.  Now, while
               you two sit here cross-examining
               me, someone's future is hanging
               in the balance.

OUT ON THE RUNWAY --

The last jet in front of Peter's is given clearance.  It races
down the runway and disappears into the sky.  And Peter's jet
taxis into position.  ENGINES REVVING furiously.

INSIDE --

A whole flock of AIRPORT PERSONNEL are now conferring.  A
crowd of other ONLOOKERS have gathered.  A few of them start
mumbling opinions.

                           FAITH
               It's a heart, for godssakes.  You
               guys are Italian.  Don't you get
               it?  It's the greatest gift one
               human being can give another.  Are
               you telling me you're going to
               stand there and deny her the chance
               of a lifetime?

A GUY in the crowd with a "Dianetics" book in one hand and
a cigarette in the other, tosses in his two cents,

                           ONLOOKER
               Let the nut go...

                                             CUT TO:

INT. JET - DAY

                           PILOT
               Ladies and Gentlemen, I'm afraid
               we've got a temporary delay.  We
               have a medical emergency and are
               going to have to head back to the
               gate.

Passengers groan.  The engines wind down, and the plane taxis
off the runway, back toward the terminal.

EXT. RUNWAY - DAY

The portable stairs are being wheeled back toward the cabin
door.  Faith is waiting inside.  Triumphant.  When,

                           LOUDSPEAKER
               Damon Bradley.  Signore Damon
               Bradley.  E pregato di recarsi
               all'ufficio informazione.

For a moment, for just a fraction of a second, she hesitates.

                           LOUDSPEAKER
               Damon Bradley.  Mr. Damon Bradley,
               please meet your party at the
               information booth.

Then we see the decision has been made.  Ice chest in hand,
she strides confidently out the door toward the plane, without
a backward glance.

INT. AIRPORT INFORMATION BOOTH - DAY

Kate and Larry are waiting there.

                           O.S.
               Larry Corbett?

Larry turns,

It's the smoker with the "Dianetics" volume.

                           STRANGER
               I thought that was you.
                     (he extends a hand)
               Damon Bradley.  Remember me?

He calls to a woman nearby,

                           DAMON BRADLEY
               Honey...
                     (to Larry)
               This is my wife, Arlene.
                     (to her)
               Larry and I played in Little League
               together.

INT. JET - DAY

Faith walks up the steps and through the cabin door.  She
spots Peter seated about halfway back.  But he doesn't see
her.  He's staring blankly out the window.  She makes her way
to the open seat next to him.  He looks up.  Does a double
take.

                           FAITH
               I brought you something.  Something
               I didn't want you to leave without.

She sits down.  Hands him the ice chest.  Puzzled, he opens
the cover.  Inside is a little chocolate heart.  He takes it
out, looks at it.

                           PETER
               I was hoping for the real thing.

                           FAITH
               I brought you that, too.

He looks at her.

                           PETER
               You do know you're insane.

Beat.

                           PETER
               I love that in a woman.

And the plane takes flight.  As we,

                                             FADE OUT
