
The Adventures
Of 

Priscilla

Queen of 
the Desert















1.

Mitzi.  I've never been to me.

Heckles from the crowd, and eventually someone 
throws an empty beer can at her head.  Felicia 
comes out to help Mitzi up.

Felicia. Are you okay?

Mitzi.  Yeah.

Mitzi goes to the dressing room, leaving Felicia on 
stage.

Felicia.  Oh well that was fucking charming you 
gutless pack of dickheads!

Heckler.  Oh fuck off you tallentless dog!

Felicia.  What was that?

Heckler.  Show us your pink bits.

Felicia.  No, I don't think I will.  Now do you 
know why this microphone has such a long cord?  So 
it's easily retrieved after I've shoved it up your 
arse!

2.  Hotel dressing room

Felicia.  What the fuck's going on out there 
tonight?  Are you hurt?                Alright, 
which one of you bitches shat on my breasts?

A very glamourous phone is placed in front of Tick.   
"Tick darling, it's for you"

Tick.  Hello?

Woman's voice.  Ding Dong!  Avon calling.  Howdy 
sunshine. Long time no hear.

3.	HOSPITAL CORRIDOR FLASHBACK.

A doctor rips off his surgical mask and hands it to 
the nurse.

Doctor.  Where?

Nurse.  Emergency Ward A

Door fling open as he see's Mitzi, done up in 
ellaborate drag.

Doctor.  Mr Belrose?

Mitzi.  Yes.

4.	HOTEL DRESSING ROOM.

Woman's voice.  So how about it?

5.	ON STREET

Fights are going on, and it is raining

6.	BERNADETTE'S APPARTMENT

Phone rings and a manly hand picks up the reciever.

Bernadette.  (crying)  Yeah?

Tick.  Bernadette, it's Tick.  Sorry to call you so 
late, but I. Hey are you okay?

Bernadette.  No, I'm not.

Tick.  Whats the matter?

Bernadette.  Trumpet just died.


7.	CEMETARY

Group of people, including drag queens, and others, 
for Trumpet's funeral.

Following funeral.

Bernadette.  It's not fair.  I've spent half my 
life and all my life savings trying to snag a 
sympathetic husband and the selfish shit goes and 
dies on me.

Tick.  Twenty five years old and he goes and slips 
in a bathroom.

Bernadette.  He didn't slip.  He was peroxiding his 
hair at home again and he asphyxiated on the fume.

Tick.  I've got to get some space.  I've been 
offered a job out of town

Bernadette.  That's nice.

Tick.  Why don't you come with me?  I need some 
help and I think we could both use the break.

Bernadette.  You're not wrong.  Where is it?

Tick.  Alice Springs.

Bernadette.  You've got to be fucking joking.

8.	TICK'S APPARTMENT.

Tick is demonstrating a gaudy arrangement of facial 
products to a potential customer.

Tick.  Wo-man is a unique range of specialty facial 
products designed for the more.heavy duty woman 
in all of us.  Now this week phone rings  excuse 
me.

Bernadette.  How long is the run?

Tick.  Four weeks.  Equity Minimum, two shows a 
night, accomodation included.

Bernadette.  I can't just sit around here crying 
all the time.  Jesus.  My mascara keeps running, I 
look like a raccoon.

Tick.  Good girl.  That's the spirit.

Bernadette.  Here's hoping the desert is big enough 
for the two of us

Tick.  Ahhhh  Three of us.




9.	TICK'S APPARTMENT

Adam.  Singing.
A desert Holiday
Let's pack the drag away.
You take the lunch and tea
I'll take the ecstasy.
Fuck off you silly queer
I'm getting outta here.
A desert Holiday
Hip hip hip hip hooray!

Bernadette.  Why?

Tick.  Why not?  Look, he's turned into a bloody 
good little performer.

Bernadette.  That's right.  A bloody good little 
performer.  Twenty four hours a day, seven days a 
week.  I thought we were getting away from all this 
shit!

Adam.  Two's company three's a party Bernadette my 
sweet.

Bernadette.  We're unplugging our curling wands and 
going bush, Felicia.  Why would you possibly want 
to leave all this glamour for a hike into the 
middle of nowhere?

Adam.  Do you really want to know?

Bernadette.  Desperately.

Adam.  Well, ever since I was a lad, I've had a 
dream.  A dream that I now, finally, have a chance 
to fulfil.

Bernadette.  And that is?

Adam.  To travel to the centre of Australia, to 
climb kings canyon, as a queen, in a full length 
Gautier sequin, heels and a tiara.

Bernadette.  Great, that's just what this country 
needs. A cock in a frock on a rock.

Tick.  Oh get back in your kennels, both of you.  
Now the first thing we have to work out is how 
we're going to get there.

10.	CITY STREET.

Adam climbs down off a silver bus

Adam.  Taa daaa  What do you think?

Tick.  When do we have to return it to the school?

Adam.  We don't.  We own it.

Tick.  What?

Adam.  I met some nice sweedish tourists called 
Lars, Lars and Lars, and coaxed it out of them for 
ten thousand bucks.

Bernadette.  But we can't afford it.

Adam.  Well, that's right.  Grabs a bottle of 
champagne and looks at it admiringly.  Mummy, maybe 
a trip to the outback would help me get over this 
little phase I'm going through.     I hereby 
christen this budget barbi camper   "Priscilla, 
Queen of the desert."

Smashes bottle on roo bar of bus.

Bernadette.  That's got to be the understatement of 
the century


12.	 TICK'S APPARTMENT

WO-MAN  Products are being stuffed into bags.

13.	BERNADETTES APPARTMENT.

An enormous shoe collection.

14.	ADAM'S APPARTMENT

Adam argues with his mother about what he will 
take.

15.	CITY STREET OUTSIDE HOTEL

Cuts to start of the Epic Jog across the continent, 
and also to the Bus, as it is preparing to leave.  
The crowd at the bus is overpowering the small 
crowd starting the jogger.

Bernadette.  Ladies, Start your engines.

16.	BUS TRAVELLS ALONG WHILE SINGING

17.	BERNADETTE DRIVING

18.	ADAM IS DRIVING

19.	TICK IS DRIVING

Adam.  How long have we been on the road?

Bernadette.  Four and a half hours

Adam.  Christ.  I've got a splitting headache 
already  goes to the makeshift drinks fridge.      
Happy hour!!!!

Bernadette.  Mother's ruin pour moi!

Tick.  Long Island tea.

Adam.  And a stolli and tonic for me.


20.	COUNTRY PLAINS.

21.	 BUS.   Adam is driving.

Tick. Well listen to this one.  After we did the 
Abba show, Kevin had one of those liposuction penis 
enlargements.

Adam.  He didn't?

Tick.  You know what they do?  They siphon all the 
fat out of your love handles and actually inject it 
into your wing wang

Adam.  Yucky tuu.  I suppose it gives a whole new 
meaning to "cracking a fat" though doesn't it?

Bernadette.  Oh, listen to yourselves.  You sound 
like two fat slags at a pie bake off.

Adam.  Your contribution top the conversation 
hasn't exactly made headlines, Bernice.

Bernadette.  Gee, poor kevin's dick.  There can't 
be much room down there with his brain taking up so 
much space already.  No.  I'll join this 
conversation on the proviso that we stop bitching 
about people, talking about wigs, dresses, bust 
sizes, penises, drugs, night clubs, and bloody 
Abba.

Tick.  Doesn't give us much to talk about then does 
it?

Adam.  Whispers  Can you confirm a rumor for me????  
Is it true that her real name is Ralph?

Tick motions for him to shut up.


22.	ROADSIDE.

 Adam is cooking sausages.

Adam.  How do you like your little boys girls?        
Silence           you don't have to answer that if 
you don't want to.


Bernadette>  Oh My God.  What is this?  Outback 
with benny Hill?

Tick.  Just leave mine outside the door at about 8 
am along with orange juice and toast please.

Adam.  Why certainly Madame.  And would you like 
vegemite or Jam with that?     Tries to open door 
but it is locked      ah knock knock.  Room 
Service.

Tick.  Cant you read the sign?  Do Not Disturb!  
Please come back in the morning.

Adam.  Oh ha ha girls.  Open the door.

Tick.  Goodnight Bernice.

Bernadette.  Goodnight Mitzi.

Adam.  Open the door.           Oepen the fucking 
door!             Okay, if you don't open the door 
I'm going to sing.               Fine you asked for 
it.       Begins singing "I don't care if the sun 
don't shine" getting louder as he belts the windows 
of the bus.

Tick.  Night John boy.


23.	DEEP COUNTRY

24.	BUS  Adam is driving

Adam.  I'm seriously falling asleep

Bernadette.  No, it's your shift and you're going 
to stick to it.  Serves you right for staying out 
all night.  Slut.

Adam.  Well, I'm not going to make it.
Bernadette.  "I don't care if the sun don't shine."

Adam.  Oh, fuck off grandma.

Bernadette looks toTick, who is looking out the 
window twisting his huge diamond ring around his 
finger

Bernadette.  Are you alright?

Tick.  I'm fine.  I'm just thinking.

Bernadette goes to put on lip stick, and Adam plays 
with the brakes making her eventually smear it up 
her face.

Adam.  Sorry  SHIT!!!!!!!!!  Screaches bus to 
a halt

Tick.  What is it?

25.	SCRUBBY HILL

Adam.  Perhaps we should have flown

26.  DESERT      the bus is a tiny speck in the 
distance

26.	BUS  Bernadette plays "I SPY" with the 
others.

Adam.  Witchety grub.  Your turn.

Bernadette.  I spy with my little eye something 
beginning with R

Adam. Rectum?

Bernadette.  No

Adam.  Ring pirate?

Bernadette.  No

Tick.   Road?

Bernadette.  Alright  What's the matter with you?

Tick.  Nothing Darling.

Bernadette.  Don't darling me darling.  Look at 
you.  You've got a face like a cat's arse.  Come 
on.  Fess up.

Tick.  I'm just worried about the show, that's all.  
Like, we haven't done any rehearsals yet and.

Bernadette.  We've got two weeks for Christ's sake.  
That's plenty of time to rehearse.  Now what's your 
problem?

Tick.  It's not a problem.   I just want this show 
to be good.  That's all.  It's got to be good.

Adam.  How the fuck did you get this job Mitzi my 
darling?  I mean , who is this fish who runs this 
bloody hotel in the middle of nowhere anyway?  Your 
mother.

Tick.  No,  my wife.

Adam.   What?  Don't tell me you've got an ex-
boyfriend tucked away out here somewhere.

Tick.  No.  my wife.  I'm married.


28.  BUS   Bernadette hits the breaks and there is 
sounds of falling bottles.

29.	CHURCH ALTAR FLASHBACK

30.	DESERT.  

Tick.  And when the joint bank account ran dry 
after a couple of years I guess I preffered her 
wedding ring to mine.  So no drama.  We swapped and 
called it a day.

Adam.  This is getting too weird.  You and a woman.  
What did she used to do for kicks?  Put a bucket 
over your head and swing off the handle?

Tick.  You know there are two things I  don't like 
about you Felicia.. Your face.  So how about 
shutting both of them.

Adam.  Well at least this explains your abysmal 
batting average Mitz.  I often wondered why your 
dance card was so empty.  I take it you never got a 
divorce then?.  Well girls, what can I say?  
Here's to a secret very well kept.

Bernadette.  Shame it's not going to stay that way.  
Isn't it?

Adam.  Mmmmmm  Got any more surprises you'de like 
to share with us?  Haven't got any kids stashed 
away out there as well have you?

Tick.  Look.  I haven't lied about anything.  After 
six years I get a phone call out of nowhere 
screaming for help. And Christ knows I owe her a 
couple of favours.  I'm sorry that I never told 
you.  I'm not sorry that you're here.

Bernadette.  Don't worry about it dolls.  I'm as 
jealous as hell.

31.  DESERT,   bus hurtles across the plains.

31.	CARD GAME ON BUS

Tick.  What?

Adam.  So was it a big wedding?  Get lots of 
pressies did we?  I just wish I was OLD enough to 
be there.

Tick.  Oh ha ha

Adam.  I would have bought you a lovely matching 
set of hers and hers bath mats.

Tick.  Give it a rest.

Adam.  Not on your life.  Imagine.  Mitzi the 
magnificent and her blushing bride.Mowing those 
lawns must have been murder on those heels though.

Tick.  Al right Felicia, that's enough.  Let's put 
some money in that seething cesspool mouth of 
yours.  If I win this game, you will never mention 
my wife, ever, in my presence again  OK

Adam.  And if I win?

Tick.  Name your price

Adam.  Well now,  what would I like more than 
anything in the world?

Tick.  SNAP,  better be quick.


33. BROKEN HILL   Mitzi and Felicia step out onto 
the street all dolled up in exagerated Drag.

Mitzi.  What the fuck am I doing?  Take that bloody 
frock off Felicia.  Don't make it worse than it is.

Felicia.  Think I'll let you get all the attention?  
No chance.  Come on girls, lets go shopping

Bernadette.  For Christ's sake,

34.  BROKEN HILL.    The girls make their way down 
the main street  amidst looks of amazement from 
locals.

35.	MARIO'S PALACE

Bernadette.  You've got to be kidding.

Owner.  Welocome to Mario's Palace.  Come in.  What 
can I do for you?  Would you like a room Madame.


36.	HOTEL ROOM

Mitzi.  Oh tackorama!  Who the hell does all the 
painting around here?

Bernadette.  Someone with no arms or right foot by 
the look of it.

Felicia.  For goodness sake, get down off that 
crucifix.  Someone needs the wood.

Mitzi.  What fuuuuuuuun.  Baby bottles of booze.

Bernadette.  Uh  gather round girls, I'll show you 
a trick.  You drink the gin.  Fill the empty bottle 
with water and put it back in the fridge.

Mitzi.  Va t'em vous.  What about the scotch?

Bernadette.  That's where the complimentary tea 
bags come in handy.

Mitzi.  Very Clever.

Felicia.  Cheers girls.  And congratualtions Mitzi 
darling.  You did it.  One lap of the Broken Hill 
main drag in drag!!!  That'll teach you to take on 
the Fairmont Boys School SNAP champion.

Bernadette.  Here's to getting off that fucking 
bus.

ALL.  Chookers!

Felicia.  So, all dolled up and nowhere to go.

Bernadette.  Well I sure as shit have no intention 
of sitting here for the rest of the evening

Felicia.  I'm in.

Mitzi.  Oh alright.  Here's hoping they have a 
decent Coctail Bar.




37.	HOTEL BAR.   Everyone looks at them as they 
enter in Drag.

BERNADETTE:  Hello.  Could I have a gin and tonic, 
a bloody Mary and a lime Daquari please.

Enter Shirley, a butch bitch.

SHIRLEY:  Well, look what the cat dragged in!  What 
do we have here then?  A couple of show girls eh?  
Where did you ladies just come in from?  Uranus?

BERNADETTE:  Could I please have a..

SHIRLEY:  No!  You can't have nothing!  We got 
nothing here for people like you.  NOTHING!

BERNADETTE:  Now listen here you mullet.  Why don't 
you just light your tampon and blow your box apart, 
because it's the only bang you're ever going to get 
sweetheart.

Raucous laughter from the crowd in the bar.

38.	LATER IN THE BAR.  All are very drunk and 
Mitzi is sharing her expertise on her facial 
products

MITZI:  Now what could be more soothing than coming 
home after a hard day down the mine to the woman in 
us all.  Now don't send any money..

Meanwhile Bernadette and Shirley are having a 
drinking contest.

SHIRLEY:  Shit, all I can see are female 
impersonators.

MINER:  This has got to be a first.  Nobody has 
ever out drunk old shirl before.  Where did you 
learn to throw them back like that?

FELICIA:  That's our girl Bernadette.  I just knew 
that stumbling around the pub circuit with Les 
Girls for two hundred years must have taught her 
something.

MINER:  You're a bloody marvel Bernie.

BERNADETTE:  Bernadette Please.

MINER:  What was that?

BERNADETTE:  My name isn't Bernie.

FELICIA:  She said her name isn't Bernie  It's 
Ralph.

39.	HOTEL ROOM

BERNADETTE:  What did you call me?

FELICIA:  What did you call me what?

BERNADETTE:  What did you call me back there, in 
the bar?

FELICIA:  Sorry.  Ralph.

Huge fight breaks out.  Arms and legs everywhere.  
Bernadette has the upper hand.

40	NEXT MORNING.

They walk out to the balcony of the hotel.  
Bernadette and Felicia are still arguing. 

41.	BALCONY    They stop in their track when they 
see their bus with the words  AIDS FUCKERS GO 
HOME!.

41	 45  PETROL STATION.   Adam goes in and buysthe 
petrol they have just put in the bus.  The old 
man hands Adam a box of paint.

MAN:  Hope it still works.  Don't have much call 
for it out here.  Where you blokes from?

ADAM:  Uranus.

46-47	BUS

TICK:  There

BERNADETTE:  I hope you know what you're doing.

TICK:  If we stick to the sealed road we'll be at 
it for at least two days.

BERNADETTE:  Take the short cut

48-49	BUS 

Lat Traviata is heard as we see the bus flying 
along the dirt road.  Suddenly we see Felicia 
sitting atop a big silver slipper, miming the 
world.

BERNADETTE:  One more push, I'm gonna smack his 
face so hard he'll have to stick a toothbrush up 
his arse to clean his teeth.

50.	BUS

TICK:  I told you not to use the R word and what 
did you go and do?

ADAM:  I was only having fun.

TICK:  Fun?  What else do you do for amusement?  
Slam your fingers in car doors?  What's the point?

ADAM:  I like seeing people get hot headed ok?  It 
gives me a kick.

TICK:  Is it true that when you were born the 
doctor slapped your mother?  What sort of bent 
childhood did you grow up in Adam Whitely?

51.	FLASHBACK TO ADAM'S BATHROOM.

UNCLE:  Adam?  Come here boy.  Come and sit over 
here.  (smiling)  Would you like to have some fun 
with uncle Barry?  We're gonna play a special game,  
But you can't tell anyone.  Never, ever ever.  Now 
what I want you to do is put your hand down here 
and pull very gently

Adam puts his hand in the water and suddenly his 
Uncle's eyes widen and he goes all pale.

Jesus Christ adam!  Get help!  Adam, Uncle Barry's 
ping pongs are stuck in the drain.  Get Mummy.

ADAM:  No

UNCLE:  What do you mean, NO!?

52.	BUS

ADAM:  Never, ever ever ever.. You know the best 
part?  Mum was out playing golf and the dirty old 
fuck was stuck there for seven hours.  And I 
thought they were small and wrinkled before they 
got in the water.
53-54.	BUS  Adam is driving.

ADAM:  Hey, I got a joke.  Who wants to hear a 
joke?  Come on Bernie.  It's so funny, you'll laugh 
so hard your lashes will curl up by themselves.

BERNADETTE:  Do tell us your HILLARIOUS joke.

ADAM:  Well,  many moons ago there was this very 
famous bunch of indians called the Fuckawei Tribe.  
And one day the son of the great indian Chief says 
to his father, "Dad, why is my friend Little Hawk 
called Little Hawk?"  And his father says.

TICK & BERNADETTE:  Why do you ask, Two dogs 
Fucking?

ADAM:  That's not the end of the joke.  So anyway, 
Back to me.  SHIT!

TICK:  What's happening?

ADAM:  I don't know.

The bus grinds to a halt and then silence.

BERNADETTE:  Oh My god

55.	NEXT MORNING  They all stand at the stairs of 
the bus.

BERNADETTE:  Oh Felicia  Where the Fuckawei?

FELICIA:  shit shit shit!!!

56.	CAMP SITE

TICK:  Well,  I've had a look around, and I think 
we can safely assume that I now know less about 
motor cars than I did when I first lifted up that 
.. Bonnety thing.

BERNADETTE:  Now what?

TICK:  Let's just not think about it for the moment 
and eat breakfast shall we?

BERNADETTE:  That's a novel idea.  Let's stuff 
ourselves to death.  Imagine the headlines.  Whales 
beach themselves in the outback.  Mystrey 
Broomsticks Dead in Drag.

ADAM:  There's no point in walking back.  The only 
life I saw for the last million miles were the 
hypnotised bunnies and most of them are now wedged 
in the tyres.

TICK:  Somebodie's sure to drive past.  We'll keep 
the fire burning.

BERNADETTE:  Yes, and toast marshmallows for when 
they arrive.  What if they don't drive past?

TICK:  Look, you're not helping here.  Just eat 
your hormones.

BERNADETTE:  Hell.  Why didn't we stick to the main 
road?

TICK:  What difference does it make now?

BERNADETTE:  You got us into this Antony Belrose, 
And I suggest you start thinking about how to get 
us back or I don't fancy your chances of ever 
trying to be a husband again.          Jesus, what 
are we going to do?

ADAM:  We are going to start off with a facelift.  
Nothing like a new frock to brighten up your day.

57.	CAMP

TICK:  Purple?

ADAM:  It's not purple.  It's Lavender.  What do 
you think?

TICK:  It's nice. In a hideous sort of  a way.     
Bernadette jumps out of the bus in her walking 
heels and heads towards the road.  Where are you 
going?

BERNADETTE:  If you think I'm going to sit around 
watching Picasso take on the the public transport 
system, you've got another think coming.  I'll be 
back with the cavalry in a couple of hours.

ADAM:  There goes a transexual, last seen heading 
south.  We call her Bernie but her real name was

TICK:  Adam.

58-63	THE CAMP AND THE DESERT

Bernadette is out in the desert while Adam 
continues to paint the bus.  Tick gets dressed up 
in a lime green dress and composes moves to "I will 
survive".  We see a puff of dust and Bernadette 
realises it is a car in the distance.

BERNADETTE:  Help! Help!

64.	IN CAR

MA: What's that Pa?

PA:  What?

MA:  Up there you nong.  Looks like a woman.

They pull up and Bernadette runs to the car 
exhausted.

BERNADETTE:  Oh thank God.

65.	CAMP

BERNADETTE:  Thank you.  I can't tell you how 
grateful I am.

ADAM:  Bernie, I never thought I'd be so glad to 
see you.

TICK:  I was just drawing up the will.

BERNADETTE:  Tony, Adam,  come and meet our 
saviours.  This is Mr and Mrs Spencer.

ADAM & TICK:  Hello

The spencers drive off so fast none can catch them.

ADAM:  No! Wait!  Oh shit.  Oh for goodness sake 
look at yourself Mitzi.  How many times have I told 
you?  Green is not your color!

66.	CAMP  Dusk

TICK:  Do you think about Trumpet much?

BERNADETTE:  No.  Trumpet was just a nice kid who 
had a thing about transsexuals.  Lots of people do.  
Sort of a bent status symbol.  You know, "Did you 
know my boyfriend used to be a girlfriend?"  That 
sort of thing.  Always good for a supper invite.  
Still, it was better than nothing.

ADAM:  Nothing, Nothing for miles.   Can you hear 
the drums Fernando?

BERNADETTE:  I've said it once and I won't say it 
again No more Fucking ABBA!

TICK:  Okay, if we have the time, we may as well 
put it to good use.  Come on girls.  Of ya 
snatches.  Rehearsal time.

67.  CAMP     They practise a routine to I WILL 
SURVIVE.   They turn around and see an aboriginal.. 
Everyone screams.

ABORIGINAL:  Hello, nice night for it.

67.	ABORIGINAL CAMP

TICK:  I think we just crashed a party.

ABORIGINAL :  No, come on.  You'll be alright.  
Here welcome to my office.

ADAM:  Bernice, I don't know what could have 
possibly possesed you to wear that to a corroboree

BERNADETTE:  Shut your face.

The song ends

TICK:  bravo

ADAM: Fabulous

TICK:  Well girls, I guess it's our turn.

68.	They perform I WILL SURVIVE to the aboriginal 
audience to their delight.  Near the end they 
see the Aboriginal man dancing to the side.

BERNADETTE:  hey take a look at that.

MITZI:  I've got an idea.

70-71.	DESERT

ABORIGINAL:  So you actually make money by dressing 
up like a woman?

TICK:  Oh sure.  You can make a fine living in a 
pair of heels.  Why Alan?  Do you want a job?

72.	IN BUS

ADAM:  Oh if only this dress could talk.  You know, 
sometimes I wonder where I got my taste from.  
Definitely not my mother.  Oh well.  Serves me 
right for letting her buy me all these awful 
clothes.

BERNADETTE:  What's this?

ADAM:  That my darling, is my most treasured 
possession in the whole wide world.

BERNADETTE:  But what is it?

ADAM:  Well, a few years ago, I went on a 
pilgrimage backstage after an ABBA concert hoping 
to grab an audience with Her Royal Highness 
Agnetha.  Well, when I saw her dashing into the 
ladies loo, naturally I followed her in.  And after 
she'd finished her business I ducked into the 
cubicle only to find she'd left me a little gift, 
sitting in the toilet bowl.

BERNADETTE:  What are you telling me?  This is an 
ABBA turd?

ADAM:  I know what we can do with this

73-76	DESERT


BERNADETTE:  Are you right?

ADAM:  Okay, go.

The kite soars into the air revealing a blow up 
doll with an orange dress. Tick arrives sitting in 
a tow truck.

TICK:  There!

 BERNADETTE:  Fuck it.  Drops the string and the 
kite flys away

BOB:  Afternoon, what seems to be the problem?

77.	TOWNSHIP

BERNADETTE:  What a nice dog.  What's his name?

MAN:  Herpes.  If she's good, she'll heal

BOB:  Things get pretty quiet around here.  We're a 
bit starved for entertainment

TICK:  Glad we could oblige.  How does it look?

BOB:  well, your gas tank's chock-a-block full of 
crud.  Travelling on a rough road on a low tank 
chucked it all up into the motor.  Your fuel line's 
blocked and your injectors are stuffed.

TICK:  so does that mean you can fix it?

BOB:  In the short term  What you blokes need is a 
new gas tank.

TICK:  I don't suppose you have one lying around

BOB:  No.  Sorry.  I could pick one up in Coober 
Pedy in about a week.  When do you have to be in 
Alice?

TICK:  Six days.

BOB:  well, we can clean it out and hope for the 
best.  It might make it.  We won't know unless you 
give it a try.

CYNTHIA:  Lemonade here I make.

BOB:  That's very nice darling.  But please go back 
inside.

CYNTHIA:  Lemonade here I make.  Lemonade for 
guests

BOB:  No darling Please.

CYNTHIA:  Putang ina mo!  (son of a bitch)  I make 
chocolate crackles

78.	BOB'S HOUSE

CYNTHIA:  Thank you.  We put cream on?

TICK:  No no, it's face cream.  For face

BERNADETTE:  Bob, Cynthia, thank you.  I love lamb 
with meringue.

BOB:  thank you for the company.  Like I said.  New 
faces are rather hard to come by out here.  If you 
don't mind me asking, what are you doing off the 
highway?

ADAM:  now that's a good question

BOB:  glad you bothered.  We don't get your type 
out here very often.

CYNTHIA:  me like to sing.  Me like

BOB:  yeah pretty damn quiet.  Thought of opening a 
video business for a while, but I suppose we've got 
to wait to get television first.

CYNTHIA:  Me perform for you.  Me dance too.

BOB:  My wife used to be in the entertainment 
business.

CYNTHIA:  Yeah.  You perform here?

BOB:  Are you thinking of performing here?  I mean 
you've got to be here at least another night.

TICK:  The thought hadn't really crossed my mind.

BOB:  well why not?  I could have a word to Wally 
in the pub.  Everybody would love it.

TICK:  I don't think our show would go down too 
well out here.

BOB:  If you don't mind me asking, what kind of 
cabaret do you do?

ADAM:  We dress up in women's clothes and parade 
around mouthing the words to other peoples songs

BOB:  You mean sort of like those.what do you call 
them?  'les girls'  Oh yeah, I've seen them.  Way 
back in Sydney when I was a young bloke.  
Fantastic.  Just terrific.

TICK:  Bob, you're looking at probably the most 
famous 'Les girl ever produced.

BOB: you're kidding me?

BERNADETTE:  Oh give me a break.  I wasn't that 
famous.

TICK:  I'm not joking.

BOB:  What?  I wouldn't really have seen you.  That 
must have been thirty years back.

ADAM:  oh you'd be surprised.

CYNTHIA:  Me perform for you. Me sing.

BOB:  No Cynthia.  You no perform.  They perform 
not you.

CYNTHIA:  Putang ina mo!  Manigas Ka!  (son of a 
bitch, get stuffed)

BOB:  A real live 'Les girls show?  Right, this 
calls for a celebration.


79-80.	PUB    the girls are getting ready.

BERNADETTE:  Maybe this isn't such a good idea.

FELICIA:  oh shut ya twat.  Our frocks were the 
sensation of broken Hill remember?

BERNADETTE:  There was a K-Mart in Broken Hill.  At 
least they knew what a frock was.  Christ, you 
should see what this woman is wearing.  It's not a 
frock.  It's a piece of Coorugated iron.

BOB:  can I come in?

FELICIA:  Only if you're single

BOB:  oh you look incredible.

MITZI:  where did we find this guy?

FELICIA:  just keep dishing out the compliments Bob  
Flattery will get you everywhere.Now where's that 
lovely wife of yours?

BOB:  she's at home.  She's not allowed in the pub 
any more.

MITZI:  really? Why?

BOB:  She's got a problem with alcohol.  Every time 
she gets in the pub she makes a complete fool of 
herself.

MITZI:  Oh I know how she feels.

BOB:  well we're all waiting.  Are you ready?

BERNADETTE:  Bob, we're having second thoughts.

BOB:  you can't back out now.  Every man and his 
dog are out there.

BERNADETTE:  they're not chained up by any chance?

BOB:  Oh you blokes..sorry.you girls.  Look 
you'll be fine.  Take my word for it.

81-82.	HOUSE AND PUB

Cynthia is getting distressed because she wants to 
go to the pub.

CYNTHIA:  Manga Hayop!  Manga animal!  Papakita 
Kosakanilaakoy Kakanta at akoy sasa yaw!  (mangy 
animals Bunch of animals  I'll show them.  I'll 
sing.  I'll dance)

She picks the lock on the cupboard containing the 
ping pong balls and is delighted.

Benadette, Mitzi and felicia are in the middle of 
their performance when erotic music starts and 
everyone knows what is about to happen

BERNADETTE:  what the Hell's going on?

MITZI:  she's not is she?

FELICIA:  Oh you can't do that with a ping pong 
ball

BERNADETTE:  you want to bet?

MITZI:  oh no  no..   Oh God!   Cynthia is 
removed forcefully from the pub.
83.	BOB'S GARAGE

BOB:  Darling, don't go.  There's nothing we can't 
work out.

CYNTHIA:  You no good man

BOB:  don't be silly.

CYNTHIA:  You want good wife, you be good husband.

BOB:  darling don't go.

CYNTHIA:  I not like you anyway.  You got little 
dingaling.

BOB:  some days you just shouldn't get out of bed.  
If you want my opinion, I think you should stay 
here until I get back from Coober Pedy with a new 
tank.  But then again you listened to my last 
opinion.

BERNADETTE:  Forget it Bob.  It's time we made a 
move.  I'm just a gifted amateur around here.  
There's no way a nice frock and a catchy tune can 
compete with three ping pong balls, two cigarettes 
and a pint of beer.

TICK:  If we break down we break down.  I'll play 
it safe and stick to the main drag.  Pardon the 
pun.  Well, good bye Bob.  Thanks for the very 
educational stay.

ADAM:  yes I'd do anything to be able to open a 
bottle like that.

BOB:  bernadette, it has certainly been an honor 
meeting a member of Les Girls.

BERNADETTE:  And may I say it has been an hounour 
to have met a gentleman.  Believe me Bob, these 
days gentleman are an endangered species.  Unlike 
bloody drag queens who just keep breeding like 
rabbits

They begin to drive away when the bus packs it in 
again.

TICK:  Bob?????  Fancy a free ride to Coober Pedy?

84-89	BUS

ADAM:  Now listen Bob.  Let's get a few things 
straight.  We may wear the frocks around here, but 
that doesn't mean you wear the pants.

BOB:  where do I sleep?

ADAM:  Oh anywhere that takes your fancy

BOB:  the roof will do me fine.

TICK:  thank you Bob, I don't know what to say

BOB:  that's alright.  I may as well get there a 
few days earlier.  A bit of R&R.  God knows I need 
it.

Felicia is back on the roof miming La Traviata

BOB:  May I ask you a personal question?  I mean if 
you don't mind

BERNADETTE:  Sure.

BOB:  Why?  Why do you.. you know..

BERNADETTE:  You mean the sixty-four thousand 
dollar question..

FLASHBACK TO RALPH'S CHILDHOOD

MUM:  That's the girl.  Now, don't tear the 
wrapping paper.  Just slide the ribbon off and we 
can see what santa's brought you!  Here it comes 
now.  What is it?  It's a    it's a .. cement 
mixer.  Have you been changing the cards around 
again Ralph?

BUS

BERNADETTE:  So I guess I had no choice in the 
matter                   the bus hits a bump

FELICIA:  Oh for fucks sake!  Watch where you're 
driving  you stupid bitch!  What are you trying to 
do?  Fucking kill me or something?

BOB:  my fault.

FELICIA:  nicely    Sorry Bob.  I thought it was 
Bernadette.

90.  CAMP   Bob is under the bonnet showing 
Bernadette things while Adam and Tick are dancing 
in the dirt.

ADAM:  who taught you to waltz?

TICK:  my wife.

ADAM:  Oh how sweet.  You and the Mrs. Down at 
Arthur Murray's every Tuesday night practising your 
little hearts out.  Makes me want to sick up.

BOB:  Married?

BERNADETTE:  Yes married.  We have only recently 
discovered that young Anthony here bats for both 
teams.

TICK:  I do not.

ADAM:  so we're straight

TICK:  no.

ADAM:  We aren't?  So we're a donut puncher after 
all?

TICK:  No.

ADAM:  then what the Hell are we?

TICK:  I don't fucking know.

The runner runs past them, but they only see a 
flashing light.

BERNADETTE:  what the fuck's that

ADAM:  good evening.  Nice night for it.  Oh ok.  
Goodnight then.

BERNADETTE:  what a rude woman.

91-95CAMP

BOB:  and that's the power steering pump, and 
that's the radiator fan.

BERNADETTE:  How interesting.

ADAM:  HEY!  Who wants the first bath?

They all run to the lake and bath and splash about 

BOB:  can I help you madame?

Bob sticks his head out from under the bonnet after 
fixing it again.

BOB:  okay turn it over

The bus starts and they head off again to the tune 
of  I DON'T CARE IF THE SUN DON'T SHINE.  They 
finally arrive in Coober Pedy.

96.	COOBER PEDY

BOB:  That's it over there.  It's an okay room with 
a shower

TICK AND BERNADETTE:  Bags first

ADAM:  Is hot water all you can think about?

BERNADETTE:  No.  A shower, a comfortable bed and a 
nice meal will do me fine.

ADAM:  If you think I'm going to crawl into the 
sack and watch tellevision you've got another think 
coming.

BOB:  now you blokes watch your back.  This is a 
pretty tough little town.  They get up in the 
morning, they go down a hole, they blow things up 
and then theycome up again.  That just about sums 
it up.

ADAM:  Oh fabulous.

BERNADETTE:  You're welcome to hang out with us if 
you've got nothing better to do.

BOB:  I'm meeting some of the boys down at the old 
drive in for a booze up like the old days

ADAM:  I want to go with Bob.  I want to go to the 
boys club

BERNADETTE:  You'll come and have supper with us, 
Adam Whitely, or you'll stay in your room by 
yourself and watch TV.

97-100.	COOBER PEDY NIGHT

Adam is bored in the underground hotel room so he 
fishes through his bags till he finds something 
interesting in it.  Bernadette and Tick are in the 
restaurant.

TICK:  he's a good man our Bob.

BERNADETTE:  Yeah, not my type though

TICK:  oh don't come the raw prawn with me.  I can 
spot the fluttering of a beaded lash from three 
hundred paces.

BERNADETTE:  get out.  He's far too old.  Mind you, 
so am I.  Did you catch that mail order bride?  Why 
did he marry her?  I'm dying to ask.     Tick's 
expression changes        Oops sorry.  Don't worry 
about it.  You're the worlds best husband and given 
the chance you'd probably be a perfectly good 
father too.

TICK:  Do you really think so?

BERNADETTE:  Why?  Are you thinking about children?

TICK:  yes, as a matter of fact.

Felicia is walking through the streets dressed in 
drag and stops at the video store.  She steps in 
and walks up to the attendant.

FELICIA:  Do you have THE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASCARA?

101.	RESTRAUNT

TICK:  ever wanted kids?

BERNADETTE:  Sure, but I've learned not to think 
about it.

TICK:  Do you think an old Queen's capable of 
raising a child?

BERNADETTE:  Well, Elizabeth did a pretty good job.  
Prince Charles is a wonderful boy.

Tick:  Edward's still a bit of a worry.  And what 
happens if they turn out like Adam?

BERNADETTE:  You stuff them back in and ask for a 
refund.  Stupid little shit.  I dread to think what 
he's up to.


102.	DRIVE IN

FELICIA:  Hello, I'm new in town

KEG:  No kidding.

FELICIA:  could I have a bloody Mary please.

KEG:  It's beer or nothing sweetheart

FELICIA:  Well, I'd better have a beer then.     
What are you all looking at?

FRANK:  I'm sorry.  Didn't mean to stare.  We don't 
usually get women down here.

FELICIA:  Oh so what do women do around here 
besides watching videos?   Well well well!!!!!!!  
Look who we have here

FRANK:  You know that bloke do you?

FELICIA:  no,  so, who's going to show me the 
sights?

FRANK:  It would be my pleasure.

Felicia raises her glass and Frank sees that she 
has hairy arms, and smashes the glass out of her 
hand

FELICIA:  I suppose a fuck's now out of the 
question                                  come on 
boys.  Who wants to see my map of 
Tasmania!???????????


103-104.	NIGHT TIME

BERNADETTE:  So I never had a chance to tell my 
parents what a wonderful childhood I'd had.  They 
never spoke to me again after I'd had..the chop.

TICK:  I have something to tell you.

Suddenly Felicia runs past the restaurant being 
chased by Frank and his bulldog gang. They run 
behind the garage.

BERNADETTE:  Oh shit!

FELICIA:  Okay fellas lets not forget how to treat 
a lady.

FRANK:  you Fucking Freak!

FELICIA:  no, please

FRANK:  hold him down.  Spread his legs.

BOB:  Frank, Stop!  What the fuck do you think 
you're doing?

FRANK:  you mean you do know this cocksucker?

BOB:  get off him you mongrel! He was joking OK?  
Now you leave the bugger alone.

FRANK:  get out of there Bob!!!!!

BOB: Cut it out Frank.

FRANK:  get the fuck out of the way, Bob, or you'll 
be next

BOB:  Frank!

FRANK:  Get out of there!!!!!!!!!

BERNADETTE:  Oh stop flexing your muscles you big 
fucking pile of budgie turd!  I'm sure your mates 
would be much more impressed if you just went back 
to the pub and fucked a couple of pigs on the bar.

BOB:  Bernadette please.

FRANK:  bernadette?  Well, I'll be darned!  The 
whole bloody circus is in town.  I suppose you want 
a fuck too?   Come on Bernadette.  Come on and fuck 
me. That's it.  Come on. Come on and fuck me.  Come 
on Fuck me.

 Bernadette suddenly knees Frank in the balls and 
frank falls to the ground in agony.

BERNADETTE:  There, now you're fucked.

105.	HOTEL ROOM

TICK:  You stupid bloody idiot. Drugs for Christ's 
sake.  Well three cheers for you.  I hope you're 
bloody well happy now.  Stupid bloody fuck witt!

Adam begins to cry and Bernadette sidles over to 
him.

BERNADETTE:  It's funny.  We all sit around 
mindlessly slagging off that vile stink-hole of a 
city.  But in it's strange way it looks after us.   
I don't know if that ugly wall of suburbia has been 
put up to stop them getting in or us getting out.  
Come on.  Don't let it drag you down.  Let it 
toughen you up.  I can only fight because I've 
learnt to.  being a man one day and a woman the 
next is not an easy thing to do.



106-113	 BUS & CAMP

Bob tries to get a gas tank but to no available so 
they carry on driving out from Coober Pedy.

TICK:  well,  Are we bunny hopping all the way to 
Alice?

BOB:  no good, But he says the man to help us is a 
fair way out of town.

BERNADETTE:  Like how fair?

BOB:  A couple of hundred clicks fair.  No matter.  
I haven't got anything else to do today.  Lets get 
out of here.  Come on Adam.

TICK:     to Adam   Some things are said in the 
heat of the moment.  I'm sorry I got angry at you 
last night, although I dare say you deserved it.    
Anyway, that's enough of that.       You know this 
is quite an experience sitting here with you now.  
I can quite safely say that I think your taste in 
clothing is absolutely terrible, because you can't 
say a word can you?  This is great fun.

BERNADETTE:  We're going to have a problem finding 
this guy with a tank aren't we?

BOB:  Why do you say that?

BERNADETTE:  Because he's not out here.

BOB:  Oh he's out here.  He's in Alice.  Well, I 
can't go back to Coober Pedy for a while.  Not the 
most popular bloke in the world back there any 
more.

Flash back to a manilla hotel room

BOB:  Hello
CYNTHIA:  Hello.
BOB:  Who are you?
CYNTHIA:  I your wife.
BOB:  best I be going home then
CYNTHIA:  No, you not going.  I coming too.  I your 
wife. See, I your wife.

Back to the bus

BOB:  Silly girl.  Should have done her home work 
better.  She thought I was from Sydney.

TICK:  Why in God's name did you bring her home?

BOB:  she was my wife.

ADAM:  Couldn't you sell her off?

BERNADETTE:  Oh, the party's over everybody.  It 
talks.  You can't keep a good bitch down.

TICK:  What time do you think we'll get to Alice 
Springs?

BOB:  Late tomorrow arvo?

TICK:  And how long do you think You'll be staying?

BOB:  I don't know.  A couple of days maybe.  Hey a 
big day for you tomorrow.  We all get to meet the 
Mrs.

TICK:  I saw that smile Felicia.  One word, one 
derogatory word and I'm taking you back to your 
mate in Coober Pedy.  Look, please everyone.  
Tomorrows going to be a little tough.  Please don't 
make it any harder than it has to be.

BERNADETTE:  We're only teasing.  We won't open our 
mouths until you give the word.  Then it's open 
season.

TICK:  Oh well, time for bed.  Got to look good for 
the wife in the morning.  Come along Adam.  Time 
for your beauty sleep.  Come on.  Will you two be 
joining us?

BERNADETTE:  I just thought I'd have one for the 
road.  How about you Bob?

BOB:  Sounds good to me.

TICK:  All right then.  See you in the morning.  
Night.

Tick and Adam spy from the bus as the conversation 
fireside gets personal.

BERNADETTE:  Another piece of cake Bob?

BOB:  Ah no.

BERNADETTE:  So, tell me about you.

BOB:  can't complain.  Life's a lot simpler now.  I 
spent thirty years wandering around the world only 
to find I'm better off where I started..  Not much, 
But it's my turf.


115-117	CAMP AND FINAL LEG OF TRIP

TICK:  Adam!

ADAM:  What?

TICK:  Guess who didn't come home last night?  I've 
waited all my life for this!  Bernice has left her 
cake out in the rain.

TICK AND ADAM:  Hava Nagila Hava hang over hava 
nagila ya ya ya


118-121	LASITERS HOTEL  ALICE SPRINGS

The bus rumbles into Alice Springs and pulls up at 
Lasiters Casino.

TICK:  My fucking back is killing me

BERNADETTE:  I need a crap.

BOB:  Do you want me to go in?

TICK:  No, I'll go

DOORMAN:  Excuse me sir, you cant park your bus 
here.  Are you planning on staying at the hotel?

TICK:  Oh sorry.  Could you direct me to Marion 
Barber please?  We're the Cabaret act from Sydney.

DOORMAN:  Oh yeah, right.  Well just go in through 
to receptionand they'll take you right through.

TICK:  thanks.

DOORMAN:  It's alright Lenny.  These are the drag 
queens

ADAM:  Come on Bob.  Let's go try on your nice new 
frock.

DOORMAN:  G'day

Marion is on the phone.

MARION:  No, those three kegs didn't arrive.  I 
need them today.  Not tomorrow, but today.  You're 
a doll.                       What an arse hole                                   
My god, Husband Husband!  It's so good to see you.

TICK:  Hiya wife

MARION:  You're a day late.  I was just gathering 
the search party.  Where are the others?

TICK:  Oh they're outside.

MARION:  You've lost weight you rotten old queer.

TICK:  well it's about fucking time.  I can finally 
get into that old one piece of yours.  You know, 
the one with the sun flowers.

MARION:  You still got that?  What the hell do you 
do with it?

TICK:  "The poisedon Adventure " routine.  You 
know, Shelley Winters.

They act like they are swimming

Where is he?

They go to the hotel dining room.

MARION:  Benj, do you remember Tick?

BENJAMIN: Hello Tick.

TICK:  Hello

HOSPITAL FLASHBACK

DOCTOR:  Mr Belrose?

MITZI: Yes?

DOCTOR:  Congratulations.  It's a boy.

As the bucket drops so does Bernadette as she 
faints, hitting her head on the floor as she falls 
flat out.  Everybody races to her aid.

124.	DRESSING ROOM

BERNADETTE: For Christ's sake, mitzi, Why didn't 
you tell us?  Why the hell did you have to shock me 
like that?  This lump is getting bigger by the 
second.  I'm about to make my Northern Territory 
debut looking like a fucking Warner Brothers 
cartoon character has hit me over the head with an 
iron.

ADAM:  I think you look more like a Disney witch 
myself.

BERNADETTE:  Oh shut your face Felicia.  At least I 
don't look like somebody has tried to open a can of 
beans with my make up.

MITZI:  I'm sorry girls.  I couldn't stand the 
thought of you two bagging me in the bus for two 
weeks.  Anyway what difference does it make now?

BERNADETTE:  About two inches difference to my head 
for one.

MITZI:  Did you get a good look at him?  He's got 
my profile that's for sure.

FELICIA:  I think I'm going to be sick.

BERNADETTE: I hate to be practical here but does he 
know who you are?  I mean, does he know what you do 
for a living?

MITZI:  Well, he knows he has a father in the 
showbusiness/cosmetics industry

BERNADETTE: Oh Lord, I don't understand.

MITZI:  No you don't understand.  So stop trying 
to.  It will be fine.

BERNADETTE:  It had better be.

Marion bursts into the room.

MARION:  Oh, stop wearing out that mirror

FELICIA:  You always knock before you enter?

MARION:  Always!  Why?  You haven't got anything to 
hide in there have you?  Alright girls, you're on 
in ten minutes

FELICIA:  Sweetheart, you've been on ever since you 
were born.

MARION:  Hope you're ready to slay them.  The 
word's out.  We've got a big crowd

BERNADETTE:  Like how big?

MARION:  a full house.

MITZI:  where's benj?

MARION:  Safe and sound.  Asleep in bed.  Don't you 
worry about a thing.  Okay my little powder puff?

There is a knock at the door

BOB:  can I come in?

BERNADETTE:  Now there's a gentleman.  Of course 
you can Bob.

BOB:  my aunt Minnie in here?  Don't mean to barge 
in.  Just want to wish you all good luck.

FELICIA:  Thanks Bob.

Hands Bernadette flowers.

BOB:  to make up for what happened last time

BERNADETTE:  Thank you.  That's so thoughtful.

MARION:  Alright girls.  Let's get this show on the 
road.  You, Out.  That's a ten minute curtain call.  
Good luck.

FELICIA:  That's quite a wife you've got there 
Mitzi.  What does she do in her spare time.  Sand 
back the hulls of oil rigs with her tongue?

MITZI:  She sure is something.  CHOOKERS 
GIRLS!!!!!!

FELICIA:  Watch my Jaw.

BERNADETTE:  Be careful of my head.

MITZI:  Aren't we Fabulous?



125-126	THE SHOW      Finally, by cc Peniston

VOICE OVER:  Ladies and gentlemen.  Lasseter's 
Casino in Alice Springs presents Miss Mitzi Del 
Bra, Miss felicia Jollygoodfellow and Miss 
Bernadette Bassinger.. The sisters of the 
simpson Desert!

The curtain opens to reveal the three ladies 
dressed spectacularly as Australian Flowers.  Next 
they are Emus and Frilled necked Lizards, and 
finally they come down the steps in Marie 
Antoinette outfits which, when rearranged, become 
the Sydney Opera House.

The crowds go wild and in the Background Mitzi sees 
Benj.  And promptly passes out.

ADAM:  Come on.  Snap out of it.

BOB:  come on mate.

ADAM:  You'll be fine.  Come on love.

BOB:  That's it mate.  You scared us all for a 
minute .

ADAM:  You just had to have that extra little bit 
of attention didn't you?  Nice one lovey. Nice one.



127.	RESTAURANT

TICK:  Oh shit.  What are you doing marion?

MARION:  Oh Shush , drink your daiquiri

TICK:  I hate bloody Daiquiri.

MARION:  No you don't.  You love Bloody Daiquiri.  
Least now I know why drag queens drink from such 
big glasses.  To make their hands look smaller.

TICK:  Oh ha ha ha.  What am I meant to say to the 
boy?  I've never been so embarrased.

MARION:  I think you're over reacting

TICK:  Really?

MARION:  Yes.  You're just being a drama queen.  
You're going to have to drop all that shit if 
you're going to be a good father.  Don't pretend to 
be surprised.  I've kept my end of the bargain.  
Now it's your turn..  not forever.  Maybe just for 
a couple of months.

TICK:  Why now?

MARION:  Because I haven't had a holiday in eight 
years.  I need a rest Tick.  I need some space.

TICK:  reminds me of something I said not so long 
ago.

MARION:  well I do.  And besides it's time he knew 
what his father was anyway.

TICK:  That's the problem.  I mean, I don't know 
what to tell him.  What do you assume I do?  Lie?

MARION:  Assumption, My dear Mitzi, is the mother 
of all fuck ups.  Don't bitch to me.  Bitch to him.

TICK:  Thanks for the free advice.



128-129.	HOTEL  

Bernadette's room.

BERNADETTE:  who is it?

BOB:  It's me Bob.  Your flowers were being 
mangled.  I thought I'd rescue them for you.

BERNADETTE:  Good idea.  Thanks

Adam's room.

BENJ:  What's the matter?

ADAM:  nothing.   Do you know what your father does 
for a living?

BENJ:  Yeah

ADAM:  So I suppose you know he doesn't really like 
girls.

BENJ:  does he have a boyfriend at the moment?

ADAM:  No

BENJ:  Neither does Mum.  She used to have a 
girlfriend but she got over her.  Do you want to 
come and play in my room?  I've got Lego.

ADAM:  Sure.



130-132	GOING TO KINGS CANYON

BERNADETTE:  Come on butch.  Get a move on.  We 
can't brand the cattle all by ourselves.

DOORMAN:  great show last night.  Do you always end 
a number like that?

TICK:  always.

BERNADETTE:  How would you like to pick her up 
every night sundance?

DOORMAN:  be a pleasure.

MARION:  I think that might include taking the lady 
home every evening and tucking her into bed Jeff.

DOORMAN:  What's the pay like Marion?

MARION:  Oh that one's going to get himself into 
trouble one day, and if you play your cards right 
you might just be the lucky fellow.

BOB:  come on, all aboard.

TICK:  Just watch it with the innuendos Marion.  At 
least give me a clear shot at this.

MARION:  You call dressing up as a Xanadu 
production number a clear shot?  Come on Tick.  
Who's kidding who around here?  He sure as shit 
isn't.


133.  KINGS CANYON         They are all playing 
Charades.  Adam is Up.

MARION:  Rock ---- Rock Hudson.

BENJ:  My turn My turn    he starts miming a dingo 
and a lady screaming for help

BERNADETTE:  Lindy Chamberlain.  That was appauling 
Benji.  Who taught you that?

BENJ:  Mum did.

MARION:  Lies, all lies.

BERNADETTE:  I thought so.  Come on Adam.. Up..  
Time is against us and we have things to do.   Come 
on you butch thing you.

TICK:  No count me out.

BERNADETTE:  All for one.

ADAM:  Come on Tick.

BERNADETTE:  Come on Adam.  Let's get frocked



134.	NEAR THE CREEK.

TICK:  So, whats it like to finally have a father?

BENJ:  It's okay

TICK:  Sorry about last night.  I don't always 
dress up in women's cloths.  I mean don't get the 
wrong idea.  I do lots of different stuff  You 
know, like Elvis and garry Glitter and

BENJ:  ABBA?       I'm not supposed to know about 
the ABBA show but I'd really like to see it.  Would 
you do the ABBA show for me?

TICK:  sure.                          You know what 
I am don't you?

BENJ:  Mum says you're the best in the business.

TICK:  Well,  your mum was always prone to 
exageration.

BENJ:  Will you have a boyfriend when we get back 
to Sydney?

TICK:  maybe.             Come on!

BENJ:  Where are we going?
TICK:  We're going to unleash the best in the 
business.



135-136	THE CLIMB

FELICIA:  I had a dream.

The ascension has begun.  The three darg queens 
begin their climb.  Their feet are killing them and 
they are constantly swatting at flies.  Finally 
they arrive at the top and are dazzled by the sight 
before them.

FELICIA:  Well, we did it.

BERNADETTE:  It never ends does it?  All that 
space.

FELICIA:  So what now?

MITZI:  I want to go home.

FELICIA:  me too.

BERNADETTE:  Well then.  Let's finish the shows and 
go home.


137.  HOTEL ENTRANCE   It is time to go home.

DOORMAN:  Don't go without leaving me your number 
Sunshine.

ADAM:  already taken care of Jeff.  It's at the far 
end of the men's cubicle.  "For a good time, phone 
Felicia."

BENJ:  Hey, can we stop at McDonalds on the way 
back?

ADAM:  Now that's a good idea.  I've had just about 
enough of this shitty food.  Fucking Caryfish.

TICK:  I don't know.  Where the Hell do you start?

MARION:  oh stop it.  Lay it on the line husband.  
Don't conceal a thing.  That's the key.  And if he 
doesn't like it, stiff bikkies.  He can always buy 
his own ticket back.

TICK:  And what happens when the word gets out that 
Mitzi's got a minor?

MARION:  That's your problem, not his.  He knows 
when and where to listen.  Morals are a choice and 
he'll decide his own when he's good and bloody well 
ready.

BOB:  That's it.  You're all packed.

ADAM:  You've got to be joking.  We haven't got 
Bernadette's shoes on board yet.

BOB:  hate to say this but I wish I was going with 
you.  Your gas tank will be fine.  Your axle may be 
another matter.

MARION:  I'm sure the road home will be filled with 
bored mechanics waiting for a bus full of drag 
queens to spirit them away to a better life.

TICK:  I wish.  We're not even going to spirit gum 
at this rate.  Where the hell is Bernadette?

BERNADETTE:  Here.

ADAM:  Come on Cabanossi tits.  Where are your 
bags?

BENADETTE:  In my room.  I'm not going.  I've 
decided to stay here for a while.

TICK:  Oh really.  And you're choosing to tell us 
about this now?

MARION:  She told me a few weeks back.  Just when I 
was looking for somebody to handle the guest 
entertainment while I'm away.

ADAM:  Oh I get it.  Who's been playing hide the 
sausage then?  Hat's it.  Let's get out of here 
before I throw up.  Come on Benj.  Hope you can 
drive.

MARION:  hey  Not without a hug.

Tick goes over to Bernadette.

TICK:  are you sure?

BERNADETTE:  No, I'm not sure.  But I'll never know 
unless I give it a shot.

TICK:  I'm jealous as all hell.

BERNADETTE:  Shit Raccoon time again.

They all board the bus and start off.

BENJ:  Bye Ralph!!!

Adam:  Yeah, see you Ralph!!!

138-139.	BUS AND NEWTOWN HOTEL.

Adam begins to mime the words to MAMA MIA.  The 
scene then turns into the same hotel where we first 
met the girls, still singing MAMA MIA.

MITZI:  That's enough.    Oh, My tits are falling 
down.  Thank You Thank You.  It's good to be home!!

CREDITS to the song.  Saved the best for last.

140.	CHINESE MONASTERY GARDEN

A monk is walking in the garden when the blow up 
doll Drag kite, lost in the desert skies earlier, 
comes flying into his grasp.  He examines her with 
great interest.


THE END.








STARRING:

Terence Stamp,  Hugo Weaving,  Guy Pearce and Bill 
Hunter.

