

THE FORSAKEN

MALE VOICE #1 TO PERSON) (voice over)

(whispering) (OPTIONAL)

I'm coming.


FEMALE DISC JOCKEY TO GROUP)

(voice over)

Yo, yo, yo, what's up!

FEMALE DISC JOCKEY TO GROUP)

(voice over)

Is it hot enough for you?

FEMALE DISC JOCKEY TO GROUP)

(voice over)

Well, crank up your air conditioners!

FEMALE DISC JOCKEY TO GROUP)

(voice over)

Today it's going to get seriously hot.

FEMALE DISC JOCKEY TO GROUP)

(voice over)

So quit your whining, my little 
superstars...

FEMALE DISC JOCKEY TO GROUP)

(voice over)

...because I'm going to lay down 
something extra special.

(lay down  :  slang for 'play')

HOOT TO SEAN)

What's your name again?

SEAN TO HOOT, THEN HOOT TO SEAN)

-Sean.

-Sean, yeah.

HOOT TO SEAN)

I did business with a guy named Sean 
once.

HOOT TO SEAN)

Fucked me over real good.

SEAN TO HOOT, THEN HOOT TO SEAN)

-You can trust me, sir.

-Well, just remember.

HOOT TO SEAN)

This woman wants her car by Tuesday.  
That's five days from now.

SEAN TO HOOT)

I can do it.  I worked out--

HOOT TO SEAN)

I don't give a shit how, so long as it 
gets there by Tuesday and in one piece.

HOOT TO SEAN)

If it don't, that bitch'll ream my ass.

(ream my ass  :  vulgar slang for 'be 
extremely troublesome')

HOOT TO SEAN)

And if that happens, I'll come looking 
for yours.

(yours  :  i.e., 'your ass')

GARAGE WOMAN TO HOOT)

Hoot, what are you eating?

HOOT TO GARAGE WOMAN,

THEN GARAGE WOMAN TO HOOT)

-None of your business.

-What did the doctor say?

HOOT TO GARAGE WOMAN)

Fuck him.  You got them papers yet?

GARAGE WOMAN TO HOOT,

THEN HOOT TO GARAGE WOMAN

-I'm getting there.

-Yeah, for the last hour.

(Yeah...hour  :  Note sarcasm)

GARAGE WOMAN TO HOOT)

I was getting there then and I'm still 
getting there.

GARAGE WOMAN TO SEAN)

These are bonding papers, registration.

(bonding papers  :  an insurance contract 
in which an agency guarantees payment to 
an employer in the event of unforeseen 
financial loss through the actions of an 
employee)

GARAGE WOMAN TO SEAN)

In case the cops pull you over.

HOOT TO SEAN, THEN SEAN TO HOOT)

-But that won't happen.

-No, sir.

GARAGE WOMAN TO SEAN)

Your contract.  Half your fee up front--

HOOT TO SEAN)

And the other half when you deliver the 
car.  Here.

HOOT TO SEAN)

Sign here.

SEAN TO HOOT)

What about insurance?

HOOT TO SEAN)

Don't worry, I'm covered.

HOOT TO SEAN)

You get into an accident and it's the 
other guy's fault...

HOOT TO SEAN)

...just call me.

SEAN TO HOOT)

What if it's my fault?

HOOT TO SEAN)

Then you better hope to hell I never 
catch your ass.

(your ass  :  vulgar slang for 'you')

HOOT TO SEAN)

Now, this ain't no sightseeing trip.

HOOT TO SEAN)

You fuck around, you won't make Miami by 
Tuesday.

(fuck around  :  vulgar slang for 
'dawdle')

HOOT TO SEAN)

And no goddamn hitchhikers.

HOOT TO SEAN)

Whatever hard-luck story they give you, 
don't pick them up.

(hard-luck story  :  i.e., 'tale of woe')

HOOT TO SEAN)

They're just asking for trouble.

HOOT TO SEAN)

This woman's a real ball-buster.

(This woman  :  Referring to the owner of 
the car)

(ball-buster  :  vulgar slang for 
'despicable, demanding woman')

HOOT TO SEAN)

Her husband ran off with some Florida 
State cheerleader...

HOOT TO SEAN)

...and she got this beauty in the 
divorce.

(this beauty  :  referring to the car)

HOOT TO SEAN)

She doesn't want a scratch on it.

SEAN TO HOOT)

Sure this thing'll make it to Miami?

HOOT TO SEAN)

Not that old piece of shit.

HOOT TO SEAN)

This one.

WOMAN #1 ON STAIRWAY

TO WOMAN #2 ON STAIRWAY) (OPTIONAL)

I worked with her before.  She's really 
nice.

SEAN TO MITCH, THEN MITCH TO SEAN)

-You should have seen this guy....

-A $50,000 car?

SEAN TO MITCH)

Absolutely primo.  The husband restored 
it right down to the nuts and bolts.

(primo  :  slang for 'first-class')

MITCH TO SEAN)

Well, when are you splitting?

(splitting  :  i.e., 'leaving')

SEAN TO MITCH)

As soon as I tell Decker.

MITCH TO SEAN)

He's never going to let you go.  Not in a 
million years.

JULIE TO SEAN)

The Gink wants to see you in his office.

(The Gink  :  Julie's nickname for their 
boss, Decker - Note that 'Gink' is slang 
for 'man, especially one regarded as 
despicable')

JULIE TO SEAN)

Saw the car, dude.  It's dope.

(dope  :  slang for 'excellent')

MITCH TO JULIE)

He's going to get fired.

JULIE TO MITCH)

Decker wouldn't dare.  Sean rules.

MITCH TO JULIE, THEN JULIE TO MITCH)

-Ten bucks he gets canned.

-You're on.

(Ten bucks  :  i.e., 'I will wager ten 
dollars' - Note that 'bucks' is 
colloquial for 'dollars')

(canned  :  slang for 'fired')

SEAN TO DECKER, THEN DECKER TO SEAN)

-Wanted to see me?

-You're taking the week off?

SEAN TO DECKER)

My sister's getting married.

SEAN TO DECKER)

I didn't have the bucks to go, but--

DECKER TO SEAN, THEN SEAN TO DECKER)

-What's the release date of Teen Zombie?  
-September 15th.

(Teen Zombie  :  made-up name of a horror 
movie - to appear in ITALICS)

DECKER TO SEAN)

So the trailer delivery's by August 1st.

SEAN TO DECKER)

No problem, plenty of time.  I got a 
week's vacation coming.

DECKER TO SEAN)

I don't take vacations.

DECKER TO SEAN)

If I wasn't around all the time, this 
place would go to shit.

(go to shit  :  vulgar slang for 'not 
function')

SEAN TO DECKER)

All right.  You want to fire me, fine.  
But I'm going.

DECKER TO SEAN)

One week.

DECKER TO SEAN)

That's it.  And if that trailer isn't on 
time, you're out of here.

SEAN TO DECKER, THEN DECKER TO SEAN)

-Thanks.

-Fuck you.

MITCH TO SEAN)

So?

SEAN TO MITCH & JULIE)

See you guys in a week.

BLONDE TO SEAN)

Where you headed, cowboy?

SEAN TO BLONDE)

Miami!

BLONDE TO SEAN)

We're going to the Big Bug Dune Races!

(Big Bug Dune Races  :  name of a car 
race)

BLONDE TO SEAN)

It's on your way!  Check it out!

SEAN TO BLONDE)

I can't!

BLONDE TO SEAN)

Why not?

SEAN TO BLONDE)

I got kind of a tight schedule.

BLONDE TO SEAN)

Too bad.  You don't know what you're 
missing!

SEAN TO HIMSELF)

Holy shit!

SEAN TO HIMSELF)

Fuck!

MECHANIC TO SEAN)

Ain't no damage except to the rim, far as 
I could tell.

MECHANIC TO SEAN)

I could pound it out and make it look 
good as new.

MECHANIC TO SEAN)

It'll take me till tomorrow to get that 
size tire.

SEAN TO MECHANIC)

What about using the spare?

MECHANIC TO SEAN)

The highway's shut down up ahead for the 
next 30 miles.

MECHANIC TO SEAN)

And you got to take some back roads.

MECHANIC TO SEAN)

I wouldn't want to get caught out in them 
badlands without a spare.

(them  :  the)

SEAN TO MECHANIC)

Oh, my God.  This is great.  I lost my 
wallet.  I can't believe this.

(This is great  :  Note sarcasm)

MECHANIC TO SEAN)

You'll be able to pay for this, boy?

SEAN TO MECHANIC)

Yeah.  Yeah, sure.

SEAN TO MECHANIC)

I was saving this for my sister's wedding 
present.

SEAN TO MECHANIC)

Yeah, I can pay for the tire.

SEAN TO MECHANIC)

This motel down here, is it clean?

MALE ACTOR #1 OVER TV

TO MALE ACTOR #2) (OPTIONAL)

Watch him.

MALE ACTOR #2 OVER TV

TO MALE ACTOR #1) (OPTIONAL)

I'll watch him.

MALE ACTOR #3 OVER TV

TO MALE ACTOR #4) (OPTIONAL)

Now, what good is all that?

MALE ACTOR #3 OVER TV

TO MALE ACTOR #4) (OPTIONAL)

You know, he'll come back with the 
others.

MALE ACTOR #4 OVER TV

TO MALE ACTOR #3) (OPTIONAL)

We'll get you out of town so fast, you 
won't touch ground.

MAN #1 AT HOTEL TO WOMAN #1 AT HOTEL)

Shut up or you'll wake up everyone.

MAN #2 AT HOTEL TO MAN #1 AT HOTEL,

THEN MAN #3 AT HOTEL TO MAN #2 AT HOTEL)

-You're fucked-up.

-Shut up!

(fucked-up  :  vulgar slang for 
'deranged')

MAN #1 AT HOTEL TO WOMAN #1 AT HOTEL,

THEN WOMAN #1 AT HOTEL

TO MAN #1 AT HOTEL)

-Get inside.

-Don't push!

BLONDE TO SEAN) (in distorted voice)

Cowboy, where you headed?

SEAN TO MECHANIC)

Thanks.

NICK TO SEAN)

Nice ride.

(ride  :  slang for 'car')

NICK TO SEAN)

Where you headed?

SEAN TO NICK)

Florida.

NICK TO SEAN)

Going through Houston?

NICK TO SEAN)

Well, I'm pointed that way.  What are the 
chances of you...

NICK TO SEAN)

...giving me a lift?

NICK TO SEAN)

It's a long, lonely ride by yourself.  
You could use some company.

SEAN TO NICK)

Look, man, I'm sorry.  It's not my car, 
all right?

SEAN TO NICK)

I'm driving it for the owner.  Part of 
the deal's no hitchhikers.

NICK TO SEAN)

Sun's killing me.

NICK TO SEAN)

The local dick already stopped me twice.

(dick  :  vulgar slang for 'police 
officer')

NICK TO SEAN)

Asked me to get my ass out of town.

SEAN TO NICK)

You'll get a ride.

NICK TO SEAN)

Well, what if I don't?

NICK TO SEAN)

What if in the newspaper tomorrow, you 
read about some slacker roadkill...

(roadkill  :  animal that has been killed 
on the road by a motor vehicle)

NICK TO SEAN)

...with a picture of my face staring back 
at you!

NICK TO SEAN)

Could you live with that?

NICK TO SEAN)

I'll pay for gas!

SEAN TO NICK)

All the gas until Houston?

NICK TO SEAN)

Name's Nick.

SEAN TO NICK)

Sean.

NICK TO SEAN)

You made the right decision, Sean.

SEAN TO NICK)

My sister kept everything together after 
my mom died.

SEAN TO NICK)

Worked after high school, went to 
college, put me through film school.

SEAN TO NICK)

I really want to be there for her 
wedding.

NICK TO SEAN)

You make a lot of money in the movie biz?

SEAN TO NICK)

Not yet.  Right now I'm just cutting 
trailers.

NICK TO SEAN)

What are trailers?

SEAN TO NICK)

Coming attractions.

SEAN TO NICK)

I cut the trailers for Death House and 
Sorority Killers.

(Death House  :  name of a horror movie - 
to appear in ITALICS)

(Sorority Killers  :  name of a horror 
movie - to appear in ITALICS)

NICK TO SEAN)

Well, I can't say I saw those.

NICK TO SEAN)

Movies are at the bottom of the 
entertainment food chain for me.

(Slang for 'Movies are my least favorite 
form of entertainment.')

SEAN TO NICK)

I want to cut features.  That is where 
the real money is.

SEAN TO NICK)

I could direct some day.  I don't know.

SEAN TO NICK)

You know, my dad was a second assistant 
on E.T.

(E.T.  :  to appear in ITALICS)

NICK TO SEAN)

Now, I saw that one.

NICK TO SEAN)

Me and my friends scored some killer bud 
one night and we rented it.

(killer  :  slang for 'excellent')

(bud  :  slang for 'marijuana')

SEAN TO NICK)

What are you doing?

NICK TO SEAN)

Drinking a beer.

NICK TO SEAN)

Only one left and it's warm.  If you say 
please, we'll share it.

SEAN TO NICK)

Not while I'm driving.

NICK TO SEAN)

That's cool.

SEAN TO NICK)

I mean both of us.

NICK TO SEAN)

But I'm not driving.

SEAN TO NICK)

Doesn't matter.  I don't want to get 
busted.

(busted  :  slang for 'in trouble' - 
i.e., 'in trouble with the police')

NICK TO SEAN)

Who is going to bust us out here?  I 
haven't even seen any roadkill.

SEAN TO NICK)

That's not the point.  And I don't want 
you spilling in the car.

NICK TO SEAN, THEN SEAN TO NICK)

-I'm not a fucking geek!

-Just get rid of it!

(geek  :  slang for 'inept person')

NICK TO SEAN)

Okay.

NICK TO SEAN)

You said get rid of it.

NICK TO SEAN)

Still pissed?  You won't have to pay.

(pissed  :  slang for 'angry')

(pay :  i.e., 'pay for the ticket')

SEAN TO NICK) (sarcastically)

You ever hear of a warrant?

NICK TO SEAN)

You don't even live in this state.

NICK TO SEAN) (sarcastically)

Unless you're worried about being 
extradited for littering.

NICK TO SEAN)

He didn't even bust you for the open 
container.

(bust you  :  slang for 'cite you')

SEAN TO NICK)

Don't push it, all right?

(push it  :  i.e., 'anger me')

NICK TO SEAN)

Man, you got to lighten up.

(lighten up  :  slang for 'relax')

KIT TO SEAN & NICK)

How you boys doing this evening?

SEAN TO KIT)

Fine.

SEAN TO KIT)

You?

PEN TO SEAN & NICK)

Son of a bitch died on us just as we 
pulled in to take a piss.

PEN TO SEAN & NICK)

I think the battery's gone dead.

KIT TO SEAN & NICK)

We need a jump.

(jump  :  short for 'jump-start' -  to 
start the engine of a motor by using a 
booster cable connected to the battery)

SEAN TO KIT)

I don't have any cables.

(cables  :  short for 'jumper cables')

PEN TO SEAN)

That's okay.  We got some.

KIT TO SEAN)

So, what do you say?

(what do you say  :  i.e., 'are you going 
to help us')

SEAN TO KIT)

Yeah, sure.  Let's do it.

SEAN TO NICK)

You want to pop the hood?

SEAN TO NICK)

Get in and turn it over when I tell you.

(turn it over  :  i.e., 'turn on the 
ignition')

KIT TO SEAN & NICK)

We really appreciate your help.

KIT TO SEAN & NICK)

I'd sure hate to get stuck out here in 
this...

KIT TO SEAN & NICK)

...shit-hole.

(shit-hole  :  vulgar slang for 
'despicable place')

PEN TO SEAN)

How much you pay for a ride like that?

(ride  :  slang for 'car')

SEAN TO PEN, THEN PEN TO SEAN)

-I don't know.  It's not mine.

-Whose is it?

KIT TO PEN)

Shut up, Pen.

KIT TO TEDDY)

Kick it over, Teddy.

(Kick it over  :  i.e., 'Turn on the 
engine')

TEDDY TO HERSELF)

Fuck.

KIT TO TEDDY)

Again.

PEN TO GROUP)

Fucking A.

(Vulgar slang exclamation of marvel)

SEAN TO KIT)

You might want to...

SEAN TO KIT, THEN KIT TO SEAN)

-...keep it running for a while.

-We'll do that.

SEAN TO GROUP)

Can I ask you guys, were you in Tenopah 
last night?

(Tenopah  :  city in Arizona)

KIT TO SEAN)

No.  We were in Kingman last night.

(Kingman  :  city in Northwest Arizona)

SEAN TO KIT)

Thought I saw your car at the...

SEAN TO KIT)

...motel there.

KIT TO SEAN)

No, must've been another one just like 
it.

SEAN TO KIT)

Yeah.  Yeah.  Guess so.

CYM TO SEAN & NICK)

You hondos got any money you could spare?

(hondos  :  slang for 'fellows')

SEAN TO CYM)

Not really.

CYM TO SEAN)

You sure?

KIT TO CYM)

Don't be a bitch.  You heard him.

CYM TO KIT)

No harm in asking, right?

CYM TO KIT, THEN KIT TO CYM)

-The one riding shotgun's a hunter.

-I know.

(riding shotgun  :  i.e., 'sitting in the 
passenger seat')

(hunter  :  i.e., 'vampire hunter')

TEDDY TO KIT)

Then why did you let him go?

KIT TO TEDDY)

How many times do I have to tell you.

KIT TO TEDDY)

There's a time and a place...

KIT TO TEDDY)

...for everything.

MAN IN BAR TO WOMAN IN BAR)

I'm buying.

WOMAN IN BAR TO MAN IN BAR)

I got to go home.

SEAN TO NICK, THEN NICK TO SEAN)

-How's that steak?

-It's good.  You want some?

NICK TO SEAN)

You sure?

SEAN TO NICK)

If the thing was any rarer, it'd still be 
grazing somewhere.

NICK TO SEAN)

You eating like that because you're 
tapped out?

(like that  :  i.e., 'an inexpensive 
sandwich')

(tapped out  :  i.e., 'almost out of 
money')

SEAN TO NICK)

Yeah.  I'm tapped out.  Lost my wallet, 
credit cards, everything.

SEAN TO NICK)

I have barely enough money to get to my 
sister's wedding and back.

SEAN TO NICK)

So, what's your deal?  What do you do?

(what's your deal  :  slang for 'what do 
you do')

NICK TO SEAN)

As little as possible.

SEAN TO NICK)

Yeah, but you got to make money.  You 
work?

NICK TO SEAN)

I cruise.

NICK TO SEAN)

I find something to do when I need to.  
Kind of like the day-to-day thing.

SEAN TO NICK)

Yeah, but what about the future?  What do 
you want to be doing, say...

SEAN TO NICK)

...ten years from now?

NICK TO SEAN)

I don't give a shit.  I could be dead 
tomorrow.

SEAN TO NICK)

If everybody had your attitude, we'd 
really be fucked.

NICK TO SEAN)

We are fucked.

NICK TO SEAN)

Look at the world we inherited.

NICK TO SEAN)

We're a bunch of fast-food munching MTV 
freaks humping the great American dream.

NICK TO SEAN)

You finishing that pie?

SEAN TO NICK)

No.  No, I guess I'm not.

NICK TO SEAN)

The generation before us sold their 
innocence for 200 satellite stations.

NICK TO SEAN)

It's been downhill ever since.

NICK TO SEAN)

They had Mickey Mouse, Easy Rider and the 
Beatles.

(Easy Rider  :  1969 movie - to appear in 
ITALICS)

NICK TO SEAN)

We got South Park, The Blair Bitch and 
Ricky Martin.

(South Park  :  1997 to present cable TV 
cartoon about four foul-mouthed 3rd grade 
students - to appear in ITALICS)

(The Blair Bitch  :  note variation on 
'The Blair Witch' from the 1999 film 'The 
Blair Witch Project' - to appear in 
ITALICS)

NICK TO SEAN)

All right, they had "Be here now!"  We 
got "Shit happens."

(Be here now  :  i.e., 'live in the 
moment' - note that this was a slogan 
popular among youths in the late 1960s)

NICK TO SEAN)

If that doesn't put things in 
perspective, what does?

NICK TO SEAN)

We're Microsoft Neanderthals addicted to 
surfing netland, shitting in our nests.

NICK TO SEAN)

Every time I think about giving a rat's 
ass, I just picture Monica...

(giving a rat's ass  :  vulgar slang for 
'caring')

(Monica  :  i.e., 'Monica Lewinsky')

NICK TO SEAN)

...making millions from sucking Bill's 
little red rooster.

(Bill  :  Bill Clinton)

(little red rooster  :  i.e., 'penis')

NICK TO SEAN)

Just rockets me right back into reality.

SEAN TO NICK)

You are really depressing.

SEAN TO NICK, THEN NICK TO SEAN)

-You know that, right?

-Yes.

NICK TO SEAN)

Here.

NICK TO SEAN)

My treat.  You pay, I'm going to piss.

DRIVER TO MEGAN)

I told you, miss.  This is a private tour 
bus.

DRIVER TO MEGAN)

If you want to go somewhere, buy yourself 
a ticket.

DRIVER TO MEGAN)

For a regular bus.

WAITRESS TO MEGAN)

Hey, you owe me for the coffee, honey!

WAITRESS TO MEGAN)

What's wrong with you?

NICK TO SEAN)

What's going on?

SEAN TO NICK)

I don't know.

WAITRESS TO DRIVER)

What is wrong with her?

DRIVER TO WAITRESS)

I think she's stoned, and flat-ass broke 
too.

WAITRESS TO DRIVER)

Great.  Who's going to pay me for this?

(Great  :  Note sarcasm)

NICK TO WAITRESS)

I will.

NICK TO WAITRESS,

THEN WAITRESS TO NICK)

-Here you go.

-If she's a friend of yours...

WAITRESS TO NICK)

...get her some help before the sheriff 
sees her around here.

NICK TO MEGAN)

It's okay.

NICK TO MEGAN)

I know what's wrong with you and I want 
to help you.

SEAN TO NICK)

Easy.  You're scaring her.

NICK TO SEAN)

I know what I'm doing.

SEAN TO NICK)

I'm serious.  Take it easy.

NICK TO SEAN)

I said I know what I'm doing.

SEAN TO NICK)

Look at her.  She's shaking.

NICK TO SEAN)

Get the car!

SEAN TO NICK)

I can't get involved in this.

NICK TO SEAN)

Get the fucking car, Sean!

SEAN TO HIMSELF)

Fuck!

NARRATIVE TITLE) (of sign)

THE PALMS INN

VACANCY

DESK CLERK TO SEAN)

Well, I can let you have number six.  
It's 45 bucks.

SEAN TO DESK CLERK,

THEN DESK CLERK TO SEAN)

-Yeah, that's fine.

-In advance.

DESK CLERK TO SEAN)

I'm tired of you dune racers fucking the 
place up.

DESK CLERK TO SEAN)

So no funny business.  Or I'll boot your 
ass out.  Understood?

SEAN TO DESK CLERK)

Yes, sir.

SEAN TO NICK)

Maybe she was trying to get on that bus 
to go back home.

NICK TO SEAN)

Get my bags in the car and then get as 
much ice as you can.

SEAN TO NICK)

What do you mean you know what's wrong 
with her?

NICK TO SEAN)

Get my stuff and I'll tell you 
everything.

SEAN TO NICK)

This is all the ice I could--  What the 
fuck are you doing?

NICK TO SEAN)

Her blood's boiling up.  We got to cool 
her down.

SEAN TO NICK)

Maybe we should get her a doctor.

NICK TO SEAN)

I'll need a lot more ice than that.

NICK TO SEAN)

Get back to that restaurant and get more 
ice.

SEAN TO NICK)

Not until you tell me what's going on.

NICK TO SEAN)

She's infected.

SEAN TO NICK)

"Infected"?  Infected how?

SEAN TO NICK)

What the hell is all that shit?

NICK TO SEAN)

I swear to God, man.  I will drop you a 
clue, I promise you.

(drop you a clue  :  slang for 'tell 
you')

NICK TO SEAN)

But I need the fucking ice.

BLONDE TO MERK)

Goddamn it, Merk.  You asshole.

PRIDE TO MERK)

Put that thing away before you kill 
somebody.

MERK TO GROUP)

Check that shit out!

MERK TO GROUP)

I blasted that motherfucker clean!

MERK TO PRIDE)

That's right!  Toss me another empty one.

PRIDE TO MERK)

Put the goddamn gun away before I kick 
your skinny little ass.

MERK TO PRIDE) (sarcastically)

I am scared shitless.  I'm shaking all 
over the place, man.

PRIDE TO MERK)

You're going to shoot your dick off.

BLONDE TO MERK)

Wouldn't take much.

(Note implication that Merk has a small 
penis)

MERK TO BLONDE)

Beg for it.  Bitch.

(Beg for it  :  i.e., 'I know you want my 
penis')

TEDDY TO GROUP)

We saw the lights.

TEDDY TO GROUP)

Wondered if you guys could spare a few 
beers?

MERK TO TEDDY)

We?

TEDDY TO MERK)

My friends and me.

PRIDE TO HIMSELF)

Oh, shit.

KIT TO GROUP)

So...

KIT TO GROUP)

...you got any beers or what?

PRIDE TO KIT)

This is a private party.

KIT TO PRIDE)

Sorry.

KIT TO PRIDE)

We didn't know that.

RACER TO KIT)

Well, now you do.

RACER TO KIT)

So just motivate your ass on out of here 
before you really piss somebody off...

RACER TO KIT)

...and end up with my boot in your ass.

KIT TO RACER)

Just one beer?

RACER TO MOSE)

Mose, toss me a cold one.

(cold one  :  slang for 'cold beer')

MOSE TO RACER)

You got it, bro.

RACER TO KIT)

How's that for you?

KIT TO RACER)

How about another for my friend?

MOSE TO KIT)

Uno mas coming up.

(Uno mas  :  Spanish for 'One more' - To 
appear in ITALICS)

MERK TO HIMSELF)

Oh, shit!

NICK TO MEGAN)

Shit!

NICK TO MEGAN)

Calm!  You've got to calm down!

NICK TO MEGAN)

Calm down!  Down!  Calm down!

NICK TO MEGAN)

Relax, relax!

NICK TO MEGAN)

You're safe.  You are safe!

NICK TO MEGAN)

Quiet.

SEAN TO NICK)

What's happening to her?

NICK TO SEAN)

Help me hold her!  She's going to hurt 
herself!

NICK TO SEAN)

Drop the fucking box and get over here!

NICK TO SEAN)

Give me her arm!  Shit!

DESK CLERK TO GROUP)

What's going on in there?

DESK CLERK TO NICK)

What the hell are you freaks doing in 
there?

NICK TO DESK CLERK,

THEN DESK CLERK TO NICK)

-Nothing, my sister had a nightmare.

-Bullshit.

DESK CLERK TO NICK)

Better not be something funny going on.

DESK CLERK TO NICK)

I don't run that kind of place.

NICK TO DESK CLERK)

Nothing's going on, I swear.  My sister 
had a bad dream.

DESK CLERK TO NICK)

I want you out of here come morning.  
Understood?

NICK TO DESK CLERK)

That's not a problem.

NICK TO SEAN)

You got to hold her tight.

SEAN TO NICK)

What's that?  What are you doing?

NICK TO SEAN)

Don't worry. I've done this before.

NICK TO SEAN, THEN SEAN TO NICK)

-She's got a blood disorder.

-How do you know that?

NICK TO SEAN)

Trust me, I know.

SEAN TO NICK)

What kind of disorder?

NICK TO SEAN)

She's got a virus.

NICK TO SEAN)

It can be slowed and controlled by drugs, 
but only for a while.

NICK TO SEAN)

The only real cure is to find the 
original source of infection...

NICK TO SEAN)

...and kill it.

NICK TO SEAN)

Now, I'm about to lay some heavy shit on 
you.

(lay some heavy shit on you  :  vulgar 
slang for 'give you some frightening 
information')

NICK TO SEAN)

You'll probably bail, but I am totally 
played out...

(bail  :  slang for 'leave')

(played out  :  slang for 'exhausted')

NICK TO SEAN)

...and I need your help.

NICK TO SEAN)

What happened to your hand?

SEAN TO NICK)

She must've...

SEAN TO NICK)

...she must've bit me.

DESK CLERK TO GROUP)

What the hell are you doing--

SEAN TO NICK)

I had the weirdest dreams.

SEAN TO NICK)

There was all this blood.

SEAN TO NICK)

I was hanging with these....

(hanging  :  slang for 'idly spending 
time')

SEAN TO NICK)

I was way back in time.  It was pretty 
weird shit.

NICK TO SEAN)

How do you feel?

SEAN TO NICK)

Wiped out.

SEAN TO NICK)

Like I've been shrooming or something.

(shrooming  :  slang for 'taking magic 
mushrooms' - note that 'magic mushrooms' 
are a hallucinogenic drug)

NICK TO SEAN)

You were bit by a vampire.

SEAN TO NICK) (sarcastically)

Yeah, right.

SEAN TO NICK)

You know, I was thinking maybe...

SEAN TO NICK)

...maybe I should drop you both off in 
San Antonio.

NICK TO SEAN)

Come on, I'll show you something.

(Come on  :  i.e., 'Come with me')

SEAN TO NICK)

Is that who I think it is?

(i.e., 'Is that Pen?')

SEAN TO NICK)

What the fuck is he doing?

SEAN TO NICK)

What are you doing with that?

NICK TO PEN)

Wake up, fuck face.

(fuck face  :  vulgar slang for 
'despicable man')

SEAN TO NICK)

Jesus Christ.  You fucking killed him.

NICK TO SEAN)

I doubt it.

NICK TO SEAN, THEN SEAN TO NICK)

-Open the trunk.

-Why?

NICK TO SEAN)

Just open the trunk.  You'll find out.

SEAN TO NICK, THEN NICK TO SEAN)

-What am I supposed to be looking for?

-Nothing in there?

SEAN TO NICK, THEN NICK TO SEAN)

-No, nothing but an old tarp.

-What?

SEAN TO NICK)

Get her off of me!

NICK TO TEDDY)

Bitch.

SEAN TO NICK)

Oh, shit.

NICK TO SEAN)

Now do you believe me?

NARRATIVE TITLE) (of sign)

THE PALMS INN

PEN TO HIMSELF)

Oh, shit.

PEN TO HIMSELF)

Shit.  Shit.  Fuck!

PEN TO HIMSELF)

Fuck!  Fuck!  Fuck!  Oh, you got to be 
shitting me!

(you...me  :  vulgar slang for 'this 
can't be happening')

KIT TO PEN, THEN PEN TO KIT)

-What?

-We got a problem.

CYM TO KIT)

That motherfucker overslept again!

PEN TO KIT)

Oh, we got to get out of here.

PEN TO KIT)

What you want to do about her?

PEN TO KIT)

Okey-dokey.  But it sure seems like a 
waste.

(Okey-dokey  :  i.e., 'Okay, I'll kill 
her' - Note that 'Okey-dokey' is 
colloquial for 'Okay')

SEAN TO HIMSELF)

Oh, God.

NICK TO SEAN, THEN SEAN TO NICK)

-You okay?

-Fuck no, I'm not okay.

NICK TO SEAN)

You got to take the drugs to slow the 
virus.

NICK TO SEAN, THEN SEAN TO NICK)

-If you don't, you'll turn.

-No drugs.

(turn  :  i.e., 'turn into a vampire')

NICK TO SEAN)

You're not listening to me.

NICK TO SEAN)

If you turn before we kill the source of 
the infection, you are fucked!

(fucked  :  vulgar slang for 'dead')

SEAN TO NICK)

Who are you?  How do you know this shit?

NICK TO SEAN, THEN SEAN TO NICK)

-That's not important.

-Fuck you, it's not important!

NICK TO SEAN)

You got to trust me, all right!

SEAN TO NICK)

That got me in this shit in the first 
place!

NICK TO SEAN)

You want to know who I am?!  Take a look 
at that!

NICK TO SEAN)

I was bitten a year ago.

NICK TO SEAN)

Some bitch at a party.

NICK TO SEAN)

For two days, I was sick as a dog, just 
like you.  So I went to the hospital.

(sick as a dog  :  colloquial for 'very 
sick')

NICK TO SEAN)

Lucky for me, one of the interns had been 
bitten...

NICK TO SEAN)

...and he knew about the drugs.

NICK TO SEAN)

I think the vamp who bit this girl is the 
one I traced my infection back to.

(vamp  :  short for 'vampire')

NICK TO SEAN)

I tracked him down here.

SEAN TO NICK)

So which one is it?  Who is it?  The 
poseur or the retard?

(poseur  :  one who affects a particular 
attitude, character, or manner to impress 
others - referring to Kit)

(retard  :  offensive slang for 'stupid 
person' - referring to Pen)

NICK TO SEAN)

It's the poseur.

NICK TO SEAN)

The retard's not a vamp.  He's their day 
driver.

NICK TO SEAN)

You know the Penthouse pet from hell?

(Note reference to Cym)

NICK TO SEAN)

She's a full-blown feeder, but nearly 
turned.  You can see it in her eyes.

(feeder  :  i.e., 'blood drinker')

SEAN TO NICK)

So why didn't we kill the fucker when we 
had a chance?

NICK TO SEAN)

Because you can only kill the Forsaken on 
hallowed ground.

SEAN TO NICK)

What the hell's "the Forsaken"?

SEAN TO NICK)

What do you mean by hallowed ground?  
Like a church?

PEN TO KIT)

Tell that bitch to shut the fuck up!  I 
can't hear what you're saying!

(that bitch  :  i.e., 'Cym')

PEN TO KIT)

Fucking A, they barbecued her fucking 
ass!  That Teddy girl was right, man!

(barbequed her fucking ass  :  vulgar 
slang for 'killed her' - i.e., 'killed 
Teddy')

PEN TO KIT)

You should have whacked that hunter when 
you had the chance!

PEN TO KIT)

All right, calm down.  I didn't mean 
nothing by it.

PEN TO HIMSELF)

Shit.

PEN TO KIT)

I said, "shit."  We got company.

PEN TO KIT)

I can handle it.  No sweat.

(No sweat  :  Slang for 'It isn't a 
problem')

PATROLMAN TO PEN)

May I see your license and registration?

PATROLMAN TO PEN)

You know you were going 95 miles an hour?

PEN TO PATROLMAN)

No, sure didn't.  Kind of just got away 
from me.

(Kind...me  :  i.e., 'I didn't realize I 
was going that fast')

PATROLMAN TO PEN)

85's getting away from you.  95's a 
felony speeding here in Texas.

PATROLMAN TO PEN)

Says here your license has expired.

PEN TO PATROLMAN)

No shit.

(Vulgar slang exclamation of surprise)

PATROLMAN TO PEN)

Why don't you sit here for a second while 
I run this?

(run this  :  i.e., 'check your driver's 
license number on the police department 
computer')

PEN TO KIT, THEN PATROLMAN TO PEN)

-Going to run my license.

-What did you say?

PEN TO PATROLMAN)

Nothing.  No, I didn't say nothing.

PATROLMAN TO PEN)

Yes, you did.

PATROLMAN TO PEN)

Sounded like you were talking to someone 
else.

PEN TO PATROLMAN)

Nope.  Just talking to myself.

PATROLMAN TO PEN)

You been drinking, sir?

PEN TO PATROLMAN)

I haven't had a drink in years.

PATROLMAN TO PEN)

You mind stepping out of the vehicle, 
please?

PEN TO PATROLMAN, THEN PATROLMAN TO PEN)

-Of course not.

-And open up the trunk for me.

PEN TO PATROLMAN)

Ain't nothing in the trunk.

PATROLMAN TO PEN)

I'd like to see just the same.

PEN TO PATROLMAN)

Okey-dokey.

PEN TO PATROLMAN)

But I think you'll be disappointed.

PEN TO PATROLMAN)

Told you!

PEN TO KIT)

What do you want me to do with him?

PEN TO KIT)

Yeah, he's still alive.

PEN TO KIT)

Okey-dokey.

PEN TO KIT)

There's one in here like they always 
carry.

(one  :  i.e., 'a can of gasoline')

PEN TO CYM)

Of course I am.  I ain't a idiot.

PEN TO HIMSELF)

Fucking bitch.

(Vulgar slang for 'Cym is an overbearing 
woman.')

SEAN TO NICK)

What are these?

NICK TO SEAN)

Antigens, aminos, proteins.

NICK TO SEAN)

Back in the late 80s, when they were into 
drug cocktails for HIV...

NICK TO SEAN)

...some doctor who had been bitten mixed 
one that slowed the virus.

NICK TO SEAN)

Everybody's different, but usually it 
takes about a week to turn.

NICK TO SEAN)

You get on the cocktail, you can buy 
yourself some time.

SEAN TO NICK)

How long do the drugs work?

NICK TO SEAN)

They can hold off the onset for a couple 
of years.

SEAN TO NICK)

But not forever?

NICK TO SEAN)

No.  Not forever.

SEAN TO NICK)

Is that what you were giving the girl in 
the needle?

NICK TO SEAN)

No, I'm just keeping her snowed with 
morphine.

(snowed  :  slang for 'drugged')

SEAN TO NICK)

Why?

NICK TO SEAN)

If her friend back there didn't know we 
were hunting him before, he does now.

NICK TO SEAN)

He'll come after us and that's exactly 
what I want.

NICK TO SEAN)

She acts as a homing device.  The virus 
is telegenetic.

NICK TO SEAN)

He can track us as long as I let her 
virus grow stronger.

SEAN TO NICK)

Who gave you the right to play God with 
her life?

NICK TO SEAN)

This is all about survival of the 
fittest.

NICK TO SEAN)

You don't learn that, you'll die.

NICK TO SEAN)

Or worse.

NARRATIVE TITLE) (of sign)

TORNILLO TEXAS

SEAN TO NICK)

I feel incredible.  My whole body just 
tingles.

NICK TO SEAN)

Yeah, it's seductive.

NICK TO SEAN)

But remember what came out of the trunk 
of that Charger.

(Charger  :  model of the Dodge car 
driven by Pen)

SEAN TO NICK)

You never answered me from before.  Why 
do you call him the Forsaken?

NICK TO SEAN)

How much do you know about vampires?

SEAN TO NICK)

I saw Coppola's Dracula.

(Note reference to Francis Ford Coppola's 
1992 film "Dracula" - Note that 'Dracula' 
is to appear in ITALICS)

NICK TO SEAN)

That whole Vlad the Impaler story's 
horseshit.

(Vlad the Impaler  :  Romanian price 
believed to have inspired the character 
Dracula in Bram Stoker's 1897 novel)

(horseshit  :  vulgar slang for 
'nonsense')

NICK TO SEAN)

The real deal started at the siege of 
Antioch during the great Crusade.

NICK TO SEAN)

The first battle was a bloodbath.

NICK TO SEAN)

The Turks kicked ass and left 200 French 
knights dead or dying in a blizzard.

NICK TO SEAN)

By nightfall, only nine of them were 
still alive.

NICK TO SEAN)

That's when Abaddon appeared.

SEAN TO NICK)

Who's that?

NICK TO SEAN)

The angel from the bottomless pit.

NICK TO SEAN)

In medieval legend, he appeared after 
battles...

NICK TO SEAN)

...all dressed in black armor looking for 
souls to steal.

NICK TO SEAN)

Eight of these French knights made a pact 
with the demon...

NICK TO SEAN)

...for eternal life.

NICK TO SEAN)

To seal the deal, they killed and drank 
the blood of the knight who had refused.

NICK TO SEAN)

But when the sun came up...

NICK TO SEAN)

...they were so ashamed, they couldn't 
stand the sight of each other.

NICK TO SEAN)

So they went and hid in caves until 
nightfall.

NICK TO SEAN)

They then went their separate ways, 
spread out all across the world, alone.

NICK TO SEAN)

Forever cursed with the desire for human 
blood...

NICK TO SEAN)

...and unable to ever again walk in 
daylight.

NICK TO SEAN)

The curse gradually became known as a 
disease...

NICK TO SEAN)

...and as it spread, people started 
calling them the Forsaken.

SEAN TO NICK)

The eight, they still kicking?

(kicking  :  i.e., 'alive')

NICK TO SEAN)

About 300 years later...

NICK TO SEAN)

...the first one was hunted down and 
killed in the Spanish Inquisition.

NICK TO SEAN)

Before the grand inquisitor whacked him, 
he spilled the whole story.

(whacked him  :  slang for 'killed him')

(spilled  :  i.e., 'told')

SEAN TO NICK)

The others?

NICK TO SEAN)

Over the past 500 years, three more have 
been hunted down and killed.

NICK TO SEAN)

Now we got four left.

NICK TO SEAN)

One's in Africa, one in Eastern Europe...

NICK TO SEAN)

...and we know of two right here in the 
United States of America.

NICK TO SEAN)

Our boy being one of them.

(Our boy  :  i.e., 'Kit')

SEAN TO NICK)

I don't know if I get it.

SEAN TO NICK)

If we waste this guy, how does that cure 
us?

(waste  :  slang for 'kill')

NICK TO SEAN)

I told you, the virus is telegenetic.

NICK TO SEAN)

The strains are linked to the original 
eight.

NICK TO SEAN)

The last one was killed in Paris, 1967.

NICK TO SEAN)

He had two feeders with him who hadn't 
turned yet.

NICK TO SEAN)

Both of them recovered with no signs of 
the virus in their blood.

NICK TO SEAN)

We kill the source of origin...

NICK TO SEAN)

...then we kill the strain.

SEAN TO NICK)

What if you do turn?

NICK TO SEAN)

The virus mutates into something that 
only decapitation or sunlight can kill.

SEAN TO NICK)

In other words, a vampire.

NICK TO SEAN)

This map says there's an old Spanish 
mission about 60 miles up the road.

NICK TO SEAN)

I say we go there and we wait.

SEAN TO NICK)

How do we get his ass to the mission?

NICK TO SEAN)

Oh, he'll find us.

SEAN TO NICK)

What if she turns before he does?

NICK TO SEAN)

Then we kill her.

SEAN TO NICK)

That's right.  I forgot we were going to 
kill her.

NICK TO SEAN)

What do you want to do, Sean?

NICK TO SEAN) (sarcastically)

Want to get to know her better?  Catch a 
movie with her?

NICK TO SEAN) (sarcastically)

Just make sure you keep her away from any 
major arteries.

SEAN TO NICK)

That's not funny.

NICK TO SEAN)

Exactly.

SEAN TO NICK)

It just doesn't seem fair.

NICK TO SEAN)

What's that?

SEAN TO NICK)

I want to put her on the pills.  Let me 
become the decoy.

NICK TO SEAN)

No.

SEAN TO NICK)

She was bitten way before me.  That means 
I've got longer before I turn.

NICK TO SEAN, THEN SEAN TO NICK)

-I don't care.  I said no.

-Why?

NICK TO SEAN)

Because when the time comes, I'll need 
all the muscle I can get.

(muscle  :  i.e., 'help, in terms of 
physical strength')

SEAN TO NICK)

What is going on with this guy?

SEAN TO NICK)

Jesus.

SEAN TO PEN)

There's another lane, asshole!

SEAN TO HIMSELF)

Fuck.

SEAN TO NICK)

This guy's seriously psycho.

NICK TO SEAN)

Fuck, it's them.

SEAN TO NICK)

What?  Great.

SEAN TO NICK)

What do we do now?

NICK TO MEGAN)

Get back!

SEAN TO NICK, THEN NICK TO SEAN)

-Get control of her!

-I'm trying to!

NICK TO SEAN)

Drive faster!  Get the hell out of here!

SEAN TO NICK)

Here he comes back!

SEAN TO HIMSELF)

Oh, shit!

SEAN TO HIMSELF)

Fuck!

SEAN TO NICK)

That son of a bitch hit the car!

NICK TO MEGAN)

Get in the back seat!

NICK TO MEGAN)

Bite me and I'll fucking kill you!

SEAN TO NICK)

Hang on.  Hang on.

NICK TO SEAN, THEN SEAN TO NICK)

-What are you doing?

-I got an idea.

NICK TO SEAN)

A good one?

SEAN TO NICK)

I don't know.  I'm going to find out.

SEAN TO NICK)

Motherfucker!  Look at the car!

(Motherfucker  :  Vulgar slang for 'That 
despicable man')

NICK TO SEAN)

Who cares!  Get in the car!  We don't 
have time for this!

NICK TO SEAN)

Don't let her get away!

SEAN TO MEGAN)

Come here!  Come here!

SEAN TO MEGAN)

Stop it!  Stop it!

NICK TO SEAN, THEN SEAN TO NICK)

-Hold her.

-No, Nick!

SEAN TO NICK)

They already know where we are!

SEAN TO NICK)

Listen to me.

SEAN TO NICK)

She gets on the cocktail, or I stop 
taking it.

SEAN TO NICK)

And no more morphine or she'll never 
talk.

SEAN TO NICK, THEN NICK TO SEAN)

-What the fuck did you do that for?

-We don't have time for these games!

(What...for  :  i.e., 'Why did you hit 
me')

NICK TO SEAN)

We got to get to the mission!  Come on!

(Come on  :  i.e., 'Let's go')

NICK TO SEAN)

Watch out.  Let's go, come on.

NICK TO SEAN)

Dude, get down!

NICK TO SEAN)

Go, go, go!

PEN TO HIMSELF)

Oh, shit.

PEN TO HIMSELF, THEN TO KIT)

You gotta be fucking kidding me!  Fuck!  
Son of a bitch died on us again!

(Son of a bitch  :  Vulgar slang for 
'That despicable thing' - Referring to 
the car)

(died  :  i.e., 'stopped functioning')

CYM TO PEN)

Why can't you keep this car running?!

PEN TO CYM)

You shut your fucking face!  It's not my 
fault!

SEAN TO NICK)

Why aren't they following us, Nick?

NICK TO SEAN)

I don't know.

NARRATIVE TITLE) (of sign) (OPTIONAL)

SPEED LIMIT 55

PEN TO HIMSELF)

Shit.

PEN TO HIMSELF)

It's not my fault they don't put any 
money in the damn car.

PEN TO HIMSELF)

Keep wasting it on that bitch.

(that bitch  :  i.e., 'Cym')

PEN TO KIT)

Maybe you put some money in the car...

PEN TO KIT)

...we wouldn't be here, would we?

PEN TO HIMSELF)

Bastards.

PEN TO HIMSELF)

Fucking whore.

PEN TO HIMSELF)

Oh, boy.

PEN TO KIT & CYM)

We got one.

(i.e., 'A car with new victims is 
approaching.')

DUTTON TO MIKE)

You want some of this shit?  You want 
some shit?

(shit  :  vulgar slang, here referring to 
cocaine)

MIKE TO DUTTON)

Yeah.  Right here.

DUTTON TO HIMSELF, THEN MIKE TO HIMSELF)

-God!

-Oh, Jeez.

MIKE TO DUTTON)

Look at that.

DUTTON TO MIKE)

Oh, man.  Oh, man.  Pussy!

DUTTON TO MIKE)

Pussy!

DUTTON TO MIKE)

Pussy!

DUTTON TO CYM)

What's up, sugar?

CYM TO DUTTON)

Car died.  I don't know what happened.

CYM TO DUTTON)

This retard here can't seem to keep the 
goddamn thing going.

PEN TO CYM)

You shut up.

KIT TO MIKE & DUTTON)

So...

KIT TO MIKE & DUTTON)

...what do you think?

KIT TO MIKE & DUTTON)

Can you help us out?

DUTTON TO KIT)

Yeah, sure.  We could take a look.

CYM TO MIKE & DUTTON)

We're lucky you came along.  Most people 
wouldn't stop out here at night.

KIT TO MIKE & DUTTON) (OPTIONAL)

Yeah.

KIT TO MIKE & DUTTON)

We really appreciate your help.

DUTTON TO MIKE)

I'll get the tools.

SEAN TO NICK)

Give her more pills.

NICK TO SEAN, THEN SEAN TO NICK)

-If I give her more, she'll OD.

-Why's she still fucked up?

(OD  :  slang for 'overdose')

NICK TO SEAN)

The cocktail works slow when you're 
closer to turning.

NICK TO SEAN)

What's the matter?

SEAN TO NICK)

We're running out of gas.

NICK TO SEAN)

How can we be running out of gas?

SEAN TO NICK)

Because they hit the tank.

NICK TO SEAN)

How much we got left?

SEAN TO NICK)

I don't know, 10 or 15 miles.  Do I look 
like a fucking mechanic?

NICK TO SEAN) (sarcastically)

That's excellent.

SEAN TO NICK)

I'll check out this shed.  You stay with 
her, all right?

SEAN TO HIMSELF)

Jesus.

NICK TO SEAN)

Is that what I think it is?

(i.e., 'Is that gasoline in that can?')

SEAN TO NICK)

I told you to stay in the car.

NICK TO SEAN)

I heard a noise, I got worried.

SEAN TO NICK)

That's the car.

SEAN TO NICK)

We got to stop her from taking the car!

SEAN TO NICK, THEN TO MEGAN)

Run!  Run!  Stop!  Wait!

NICK TO SEAN)

She's got to be stopped!

NICK TO SEAN)

I've got all my shit in there!

NICK TO SEAN)

Come on!

(i.e., 'Come with me!')

NICK TO HIMSELF)

Damn!

MIKE TO KIT)

By the looks of it, you probably need an 
altern--  Oh, what the fuck?

(altern--  :  implying, 'alternator')

KIT TO MIKE, THEN DUTTON TO PEN)

-Let's take a walk.

-What's going on?

CYM TO DUTTON)

Time to die, cowboy.

MIKE TO KIT)

I only have 40 bucks, but I got credit 
cards.  I'll give you the pin number.

KIT TO MIKE)

This is far enough.

KIT TO MIKE)

Kneel down.

MIKE TO KIT)

Go ahead, take the wallet, please.

KIT TO MIKE)

Kneel down.

KIT TO MIKE)

Girlfriend?

(i.e., 'Is this a photograph of your 
girlfriend?')

MIKE TO KIT)

Yeah, she's my girlfriend.

MIKE TO KIT)

We're thinking about getting married...

MIKE TO KIT)

...after we graduate and her dad--    
Holy fuck...

MIKE TO KIT)

...her dad is so rich and I can call 
him...

MIKE TO KIT)

...and he's got so much money.

MIKE TO KIT)

Please, God, don't do this to me.

KIT TO MIKE)

You got your whole life planned out, do 
you?

PEN TO KIT)

What will I do with their car?

KIT TO PEN)

We're taking it.

NICK TO SEAN)

You know how long I've been tracking this 
guy for?

NICK TO SEAN)

Nine months.

NICK TO SEAN)

It's not easy.  They hide their killing.

NICK TO SEAN)

Make it look like a gang fight.

NICK TO SEAN)

Robberies.  Some guy riding a freight 
train...

NICK TO SEAN)

...killing old women.  All kinds of shit.

NICK TO SEAN)

Almost all serial killers.

NICK TO SEAN)

Let me get this.

SEAN TO NICK)

It's weird.

SEAN TO NICK)

Three days ago...

SEAN TO NICK)

...I had a phat job and not a worry in 
the world.

(phat  :  slang for 'excellent')

SEAN TO NICK)

And now I'll turn into a vampire...

SEAN TO NICK)

...if I don't whack some freaked out 
psycho.

(whack  :  slang for 'kill')

SEAN TO NICK)

On top of all that, I'll lose my job.

NICK TO SEAN)

How'd you get into the movie biz?

NICK TO SEAN)

Your old man?

SEAN TO NICK)

My old man doesn't know I exist.

SEAN TO NICK)

Yeah.  He walked out on my mom when she 
was pregnant with me.

NICK TO SEAN)

That's fucked up.

NICK TO SEAN)

I guess it just must be in the blood, 
huh?

SEAN TO NICK)

Like father, like son.

NICK TO SEAN)

Shit, I hope not.

NICK TO SEAN)

My mom says my dad was a cross-dressing 
marine drill sergeant.

SEAN TO NICK)

Where'd you get this?

(this  :  i.e., 'my wallet')

NICK TO SEAN)

I found it along the road while I was 
hitching.

NICK TO SEAN)

You got to be pretty pissed, huh?

SEAN TO NICK)

You had my fucking wallet the whole time?

SEAN TO NICK)

And you didn't tell me?

NICK TO SEAN)

No.

SEAN TO NICK)

That's fucked up.

NICK TO SEAN)

There it is.

SEAN TO NICK)

This car is trashed, man.

SEAN TO NICK)

Do you know how much a new transmission 
in a car like this costs?

NICK TO SEAN)

Would you stop worrying about the damn 
car?

SEAN TO NICK)

Is that her?

SEAN TO NICK)

Let me handle this.

SEAN TO MEGAN)

It's okay.  Listen to me.

SEAN TO MEGAN)

We're the only ones who can get you out 
of this alive.

NICK TO SEAN)

We got a car coming.

NICK TO SEAN)

Get her in the car, man.

NICK TO HIMSELF)

Shit.

SEAN TO MEGAN)

Let's go.

NICK TO SEAN)

Let's go.  Hurry.

SEAN TO NICK)

Move the seat up.  Good.  Get her in 
back.

NICK TO SEAN)

All right, get in, lie low.

NICK TO SEAN, THEN SEAN TO NICK)

-If it's them, we need a plan.

-It could be anybody.

NICK TO SEAN)

We can't make a stand here.  We got to 
get to the mission.

SEAN TO NICK, THEN NICK TO SEAN)

-Oh, shit.

-It's them.

SEAN TO NICK)

I think they've seen us.

NICK TO SEAN)

Start the car.

SEAN TO HIMSELF)

Come on, not now.

(Come on  :  Colloquial exclamation of 
imploring)

NICK TO SEAN, THEN SEAN TO NICK)

-What's going on?

-It's not going into gear.

NICK TO SEAN)

Gear, man.  Got to get out.

SEAN TO NICK, THEN NICK TO SEAN)

-Come on!

-Here they come!  Come on!  Go!

(Come on  :  i.e., 'Let's go')

NICK TO SEAN)

Yank it!  Come on!

(Yank it  :  i.e., 'Force the car into 
gear')

NICK TO SEAN)

Go!  Come on!

NICK TO SEAN)

Go!  Go!  Good, good.  Good, go, go, go!

NICK TO SEAN)

Sean, come on.  Let's go.

NICK TO SEAN)

Take a fucking left!  Let's go!

NICK TO SEAN)

No, left!

KIT TO PEN)

Go!

CYM TO KIT)

What's he doing?

NICK TO SEAN)

Sean, what are you doing?

SEAN TO NICK)

I'm going to play chicken.

(chicken  :  any of various foolhardy 
competitions in which the participants 
persist in a dangerous course of action 
until one loses nerve and stops)

KIT AS IF TO NICK & SEAN)

Come on, you pussies!

PEN AS IF TO SEAN)

Want to play chicken with me, boy?

KIT TO CYM)

Don't you turn that wheel.

SEAN TO HIMSELF)

Rock and roll!

(Slang exclamation of excitement)

CYM TO HERSELF)

Oh, shit!

NICK TO HIMSELF)

Oh, shit.

CYM TO HERSELF)

Damn!

PEN TO HIMSELF)

Fucker.

NICK TO SEAN)

They're still with us.

SEAN TO NICK)

They'll never give up.

NICK TO SEAN)

Speed up.  We got to make it to the 
mission.

SEAN TO NICK)

I got it.

SEAN TO NICK)

What's this?

SEAN TO NICK)

You got to be fucking kidding me.

NICK TO SEAN)

You got to make a decision.

SEAN TO NICK)

We're going for it.

NICK TO SEAN)

How'd you know you'd get through there?

SEAN TO NICK)

I didn't.

SEAN TO NICK)

Let's get the fuck out of here.

SEAN TO NICK)

How much farther to the mission?

NICK TO SEAN)

About ten miles.

SEAN TO NICK)

We don't have enough gas to make it 
there.

NICK TO SEAN)

Looks deserted, man.

NICK TO SEAN)

It's all locked up.

SEAN TO NICK)

We got to get her inside.  The pills are 
working, but she can barely walk.

NICK TO SEAN)

Once she gets some sleep, she'll be okay.

SEAN TO NICK)

Nothing?

NICK TO HIMSELF)

Damn it!  Come on.

NICK TO HIMSELF)

Oh, shit.

INA TO DOG)

Buster!

INA TO GROUP)

Get your butts out of here.

SEAN TO INA)

Believe me, madam, we'd love to.

SEAN TO INA)

But we're almost out of gas.

NICK TO INA)

We're not looking for a handout.  We'll 
buy it.

INA TO NICK)

Ain't got any to sell.

SEAN TO INA)

Could we use your phone?

INA TO SEAN)

Ain't got one.

SEAN TO HIMSELF, THEN TO MEGAN)

Jesus.  Come on.

(Come on  :  i.e., 'Come with me')

SEAN TO INA)

Listen to me.  We are in a lot of 
trouble.

SEAN TO INA)

And this girl here is really sick.

SEAN TO INA)

Please.

INA TO SEAN)

You better get her on in here.

CYM TO KIT)

Why would they go this way?

KIT TO CYM)

Just drive.

CYM TO KIT)

What are we doing?  Let them go.  We got 
bigger problems.

CYM TO KIT)

Who will day drive for us?

NICK TO SEAN)

You want something to eat, my man?

NICK TO SEAN)

What's wrong?

SEAN TO NICK)

I don't feel so good.

SEAN TO NICK)

Man, I feel like I did before.

SEAN TO NICK)

I think I need some more of those drugs.

NICK TO SEAN)

The cocktail doesn't always work.

INA TO SEAN & NICK)

She's resting now.

INA TO SEAN & NICK)

She seems to be okay.

INA TO SEAN & NICK)

Doesn't say much, does she?

NICK TO INA)

There must be a place we can get her some 
help.

INA TO NICK)

I told you Fort Stockton's the closest 
and it's over 100 miles.

NICK TO HIMSELF) (whispering)

Fuck.

INA TO SEAN & NICK)

What's wrong with that little gal that 
you're traveling with?

NICK TO INA)

We don't know.

NICK TO INA)

She was hitchhiking.  She was like that 
when we picked her up.

INA TO SEAN & NICK)

She didn't say who she was?

SEAN TO INA)

She hasn't said a word since we gave her 
a ride.

INA TO SEAN & NICK)

I think maybe...

INA TO SEAN & NICK)

...you should take a look at this.

NARRATIVE TITLE) (of newspaper)

WOMAN SOUGHT IN ARIZONA BLOODBATH

CYM TO KIT)

You've lost the connection with her, 
haven't you?

(connection  :  i.e., 'psychic 
connection')

(her  :  i.e., 'Megan')

CYM TO KIT)

I don't know why we keep chasing that 
bitch.

KIT TO CYM)

It's unfinished business.

KIT TO TEDDY)

Kill her.

MEGAN TO GROUP)

He left her to kill me.

MEGAN TO GROUP)

I don't know why she didn't.

MEGAN TO GROUP)

When she pointed the gun at me...

MEGAN TO GROUP) (voice over)

...I couldn't breathe.

MEGAN TO GROUP)

Couldn't even move.

MEGAN TO GROUP)

But I think she was scared, because...

MEGAN TO GROUP) (voice over)

...she just stood there.

MEGAN TO GROUP) (voice over)

She had the strangest look in her eyes.

MEGAN TO GROUP)

After that, I don't remember much at all.

NICK TO INA)

What's with the dog?

INA TO GROUP)

Just stay put.

INA TO GROUP)

Probably just a coyote.

INA TO DOG)

Buster.

SEAN TO INA)

What was it?

INA TO SEAN)

I don't know.

INA TO SEAN)

Buster ran off.

NICK TO GROUP)

Everybody down!  Get under the table.  
Hurry up.

NICK TO GROUP)

Stay down.

KIT TO GROUP)

Come out, come out, wherever you are.

SEAN TO INA)

Where's your shotgun?

INA TO SEAN)

It's by the side door.  There's extra 
shells in the refrigerator.

SEAN TO INA)

What's with those tombstones?

INA TO SEAN)

It's an old Spanish graveyard.

INA TO SEAN)

That's why the highway wasn't put through 
here.

INA TO SEAN)

They couldn't dig it up.

NICK TO INA)

Your house is built on a graveyard?

SEAN TO NICK)

Are you thinking what I'm thinking?

NICK TO SEAN)

This place is blessed, baby.

NICK TO SEAN)

Sean, look out!

SEAN TO NICK)

Come on!

(i.e., 'Come with me!')

KIT TO CYM)

Let's get this over with.

KIT TO SEAN & NICK)

Come to daddy, boys.

CYM TO SEAN & NICK)

Are you in there, piggies?

CYM TO SEAN & NICK)

Yum, yum, yum.  Eat them up.

(i.e., 'I'm going to eat your corpses.')

CYM TO SEAN & NICK)

Eat them up.  Eat them up.

SEAN TO GROUP)

Now that's a bitch!

(a bitch  :  Note double meaning - [1] 
offensive slang for 'an overbearing 
woman' and [2] slang for 'something 
annoying and unpleasant')

NICK TO SEAN)

I hit the motherfucker.

NICK TO SEAN)

Be sure to take his head off.

SEAN TO NICK)

I don't see--

KIT TO SEAN)

Make your stand, punk.

KIT TO SEAN)

Let's see what you got.

KIT TO SEAN)

Not much fight left, huh?

SEAN TO KIT)

Kill me.

SEAN TO KIT)

Kill me.

KIT TO SEAN)

Kill you?

KIT TO SEAN)

Who said anything about killing?

KIT TO SEAN)

You'll be my new day driver.

KIT TO SEAN)

At least until you turn.

KIT TO SEAN)

Then I don't give a shit what you do.

KIT TO SEAN)

Get the car.

KIT TO SEAN)

And bring it around.

KIT TO SEAN)

And if you fuck with me...

KIT TO SEAN)

...I'll kill your little blond friend...

KIT TO SEAN)

...in a blink of an eye.

KIT) (singing)

It's just the beast under your bed

(Note that in Titles #5-59 through #5-63, 
Kit is singing "Enter Sandman" by the 
heavy-metal band Metallica)

KIT) (singing)

In your closet, in your head

KIT) (singing)

Exit light

KIT) (singing)

Enter night

KIT) (singing)

We're off to never-never land

KIT TO MEGAN)

I'm looking for a new girlfriend.

KIT TO MEGAN, THEN MEGAN TO KIT)

-What do you say?

-Fuck you.

KIT TO MEGAN)

Attitude.  I like that in a girl.

KIT TO MEGAN)

Now move away from the old witch, please.

KIT TO MEGAN)

Look, darling.

KIT TO MEGAN)

I'll waste her as sure as the sun shines.

(waste  :  slang for 'kill')

(as...shines  :  colloquial emphatic)

KIT TO MEGAN)

Now, you can stay with her and die...

KIT TO MEGAN)

...or...

KIT TO MEGAN)

...you can come with me and I'll let you 
live.

SEAN TO KIT)

It's time to make your stand, punk!

SEAN TO KIT)

Let's see what you've got.

SEAN AS IF TO CAR)

No!  No!  No!  Come on!

(Come on  :  i.e., 'Start' - 'Turn over')

KIT TO SEAN) (sarcastically)

Out of gas, are we?

KIT TO SEAN)

Didn't I go and tell you to do something!

SEAN TO KIT)

You know what?

SEAN TO KIT)

Why don't you drive your own fucking car.

SEAN TO NICK)

Come on.

(i.e., 'Come with me.')

MEGAN TO INA) (OPTIONAL)

Come on, Ina!

MEGAN TO SEAN)

How do you feel?

SEAN TO MEGAN)

Good.

SEAN TO MEGAN)

You?

MEGAN TO SEAN)

Going home today.

MEGAN TO SEAN)

Actually, not home.  My aunt and uncle's 
place in Phoenix.

SEAN TO MEGAN)

They said I could probably go home 
tomorrow.

SEAN TO MEGAN)

I can still make my sister's wedding.

MEGAN TO SEAN)

I saw Ina this morning.

MEGAN TO SEAN)

She's okay, but she doesn't remember what 
happened.

SEAN TO MEGAN)

Yeah, nobody suspects a thing.

SEAN TO MEGAN)

Just a couple of bad guys burned up in a 
fire.

SEAN TO MEGAN)

Probably better that way, huh?

MEGAN TO SEAN)

No one would believe it.

SEAN TO MEGAN)

No, probably not.

MEGAN TO SEAN)

Well...

MEGAN TO SEAN)

...I got to go.

MEGAN TO SEAN)

I just wanted to thank you for 
everything.

SEAN TO MALE ORDERLY)

What's up?  Where's the guy that was 
here?

MALE ORDERLY TO SEAN)

Checked out, I guess.

FEMALE NURSE TO SEAN)

He left this for you.

NICK TO SEAN) (voice over)

By the time you read this, I'll be on the 
road again.

NICK TO SEAN) (voice over)

Your's and Megan's fight is over.

NICK TO SEAN) (voice over)

Mine ain't.  Turns out he wasn't the one 
I was looking for.

NICK TO SEAN) (voice over)

Mine's still out there somewhere.

NICK TO SEAN) (voice over)

But the way I figure it, if I can find 
one, I can find another.

NICK TO SEAN) (voice over)

They might be bad motherfuckers, but 
we're not talking brain surgeons.

(bad  :  i.e., 'evil')

(we're not talking  :  slang for 'they're 
not')

NICK TO SEAN) (voice over)

So anyways, thanks.  It was cool hanging 
with you.

NICK TO SEAN) (voice over)

Maybe I'll see you again sometime.

NICK TO SEAN)

Nice ride, man.

SEAN TO NICK)

Had you going for a minute, didn't I?

(Had you going  :  i.e., 'I tricked you')

SEAN TO NICK, THEN NICK TO SEAN)

-Took it from an old friend.

-Yeah, right.

(it  :  i.e., 'the car')

NICK TO SEAN)

How did you find me?

SEAN TO NICK)

Well....

SEAN TO NICK)

I drove just about every damn road...

SEAN TO NICK)

...from Nevada to Kansas, Mexico to 
Montana, for about three months.

SEAN TO NICK)

Then I wised up, started doing what you 
do.

SEAN TO NICK)

Checking the news, reading the papers.

SEAN TO NICK)

You're right.

SEAN TO NICK)

They do hide their killings.

(They  :  i.e., 'Vampires')

SEAN TO NICK)

Look hard enough, you can find them.

SEAN TO NICK, THEN NICK TO SEAN)

-Here.

-Thanks.

(Here  :  i.e., 'Drink some of this')

SEAN TO NICK)

He's been a bad boy, Nick.

(He  :  i.e., 'The vampire who bit you')

SEAN TO NICK)

And busy.

SEAN TO NICK)

Busier than the last one.

SEAN TO NICK)

I figure he's going to Denver.  He moves 
fast, so he won't stay there long.

NICK TO SEAN)

You don't have to do this, you know that.

(do this  :  i.e., 'hunt for this other 
vampire with me')

SEAN TO NICK)

Yeah, I do.

NICK TO SEAN) (voice over)

So tell me.  Was that woman really pissed 
about her Mercedes?

SEAN TO NICK) (voice over)

Oh, yeah.



